It could affect you more than you know it could affect somebody else.
Because it's been a while?
Helps you get through this difficult time.
T. So you might want to look into some healthier options at the restaurants, it sounds like you have some friends who are diabetic, and you're probably concerned that some of the options you've tried in the past might not be good long term options for you,
T. So if you could find a way to do it in a way that feels comfortable, that's great. It sounds like making small changes is the key step for you.
Gives you a visual.
T. So you're definitely determined to cut back
So you feel confident
Ok, so, it seems like those changes are really being made, and they're really being made in the health and in the relationships that you want to have
Um - huh. You were just going through the motions.
So I understand that, um, you, you, you are, not, um...you're not, um... You told me that you've had, that you've had, you have a bad experience with Wendy's and that it really has an impact. And that you've tried several times and it just hasn't worked and you're
T. It's like her being a diabetic...
So, it's...it's...it's...it's kind of the social thing, it's something that everyone does, and it's something that your family and friends do too.
It sounds like you're afraid what this could lead you down the road
You say you didn't, and, you kind of went through the emotional - to the physical - just to show what quitting, 'cause,
T. So it sounds like, even with that, it might be a little bit easier to talk about ways in which
So, you know, if you feel like you need to do something, just say, " I need to do something " and it will happen.
T. Um, having more control in your life.
So, you feel it's very important for you to quit smoking, especially, but you also want the withdrawal or other symptoms to go along with it, but not necessarily to the level of total zap - pierce.
Um, you've had some experience of what it can be like when you try and weight watchers.
It sounds like you're, you know, on a personal level, it's just that your confidence is kind of shattered a little bit because you've been smoking for
failure. To keep it off.
So, it sounds like a lot of what you've heard or what you've been seeing is sort of the effects of being a really good mother, taking care of yourself and making sure that you take care of
So it's like they'd get on board with it.
So that experience to you was really upsetting you, it was really frightening to you and you didn't like what happened but it's something you've been doing successfully in the past so you feel like you're ready to do it again.
Cycle of things.
They want you to be there.
So you're single mom, you've got a fulltime job. You're a single mom, and so maybe you don't wanna be successful at this, you're not afraid, you're not very worried that you'll become a single mom.
Will people be okay with me?
And, uh, you were able to maintain that, even when you were smoking for the cigarettes.
And, you look like you're maybe not, you're not competent, or looking forward to making the next step.
T. It also affects your grandson.
So it sounds like it`s - it's been frustrating, trying to quit. You just haven't been able to get there.
So it sounds like you want to be able to take your meds when you are in a good mood, to help you get through those times when you are kind of depressed.
T. And remember that feeling.
T. So gaining a little bit more weight or being more involved in their lives.
T. Um... It sounds like your, your family, uh, you're a pretty good example.
So you remember the fad diets and all that.. but there have been other diets in your life that you've tried and it hasn't really worked for you?
Doing what you preach. And kind of taking what you've learned from your past and kind of applying it to the new situation.
T. Um, but it sounds like it's been a part of your life
Yup. It just got a little bit of a boost and it's still growing.
so you really don't have that opportunity yet.
Sure. Ok. That gives you a visual.
And you're a little sad to think about how rotten the experience has been for you
So you'd have more time to make those meals.
so it worries you a little bit that you might be one of the factors that might end up with him.
o it sounds like having a non smoker in your life is really important for you
Yeah, excuse me. So, especially when you consider all of the time that you've put in to it, is it really, it sounds like it's been worth it, it's really important to you to, to complete that process, to commit to it.
What kind of a scenario you can set in your mind.
T. And, uh, specifically wanting to be around your grandson, as well.
Like you've had some success in the past when -
That must have been very difficult.
T. And so that kind of having control issues.
You're still kind of hesitant
T....but those not having the food that you want is just not going to work for you.
So it sounds like you're very social and that's something you enjoy doing.
Okay. So it sounds like that kind of thinking about what you've tried in the past and what you've really struggled with in the past, um really helps you today.
T. And so in addition to controlling you, these cravings also seem to be kind of
So you've been working on a lot and you've struggled a lot with the weight.
T. It's hard though because you don't want the huge weight to come on your shoulders.
So it sounds like a habit and it's really where you're living your days. You're getting engaged in your family, doing your day job, you're taking care of the kids.
T. And you're concerned that, uhm, with your diabetes you might actually get a little bit worse,
You want to avoid that.
uh... so it's just been kind of a... it's been kind of a rough time for you, it's just
- what is the level of success and see, I guess -
Right. So you don't have the virus to interfere with you in a way that you might be able to beat the HIV or not
So, it's very important to you and your family, it's very important to your health, it's very important to influencing their futures, and, um, you know that's, um, that's...the last thing you want to happen
T. So. You are right that, the family members are affected and other members are not, um, if you don't mind the fact that your, your
T. It could be a bonding experience between you and your daughter to go do this together.
T....and, you know, being there to be there for her and to be there for her is really important.
- of the first kind of the, " This is hard. " Like quitting cold turkey, 'cause it's - its not its success rate is high.
Into the three or four. So not a zero so that you wouldn't be, you wouldn't have to be worried about this progressing any further.
T. So, that's also a really big theme that seems to be playing into this, you know, you know, how you want to be responsible for your children, you know, taking care of yourself and taking care of your grandkids and making sure that you're healthy so that they can live long and healthy, um.
T. Okay, so um, on one hand, you're exercising and doing good physical activity, so you're eating healthy, so that's good
That's great. That's great. So, it sounds like that kind of having that, time with your family is important...
T. Because it sets you up for the future and it's hard to really have that time with your family.
T. Um, while you were trying to quit, the withdrawal or other symptoms kind of took over, and you really didn't like it.
T. You know you're worried that, you know, that your children may be eating snacks
It's just, it's not in the picture.
T. [?? phrase ]
T. Ok. But you're still hopeful that...
T. which you've been fighting for the past you've been taking kind of the slow and steady increase in your - your diabetes kind of up throughout your life.
hm... so it sounds like smoking is part of your day.
T. So, um, we tried things like, you gave us a list and it kinda... you've tried things like that in the past but weren't successful so...
Uh, It's kind of a stress relief?
T. And you're afraid that if you keep things the same that -
T. Um, really busy and I can tell... There are a lot of competing and you know... You have to take care of the kids and you have to take care of the family.
T. And you'd like to take action now to prevent that.
So you already have this family history with your father and the fact that he's had some pretty severe health problems and his also has this diagnosis of prediabetes. The fact that you know you have brought this diagnosis which is kind of surprising.
T. So, um, you know, you tried to quit in the past, and you tried to quit in the past, but you're just not sure you'll be able to successfully quit, given the amount of effort that
Mhm. Maybe, um, checking out the medication.
So you wouldn't have to worry so much about your weight.
T. So, it's frustrating because you have tried a lot of things and it's just not...
T. So you feel like you've crossed another turn.
So you feel like there's something that, you know, you're taking something that's valuable, like
T. Yeah, you feel like he's having some kind of a conflict...
Okay so this is kind of... and this is kind of where you're at a point in your life where you're thinking about moving forward.
Ok. So it sounds like its important to you that you don't end up like your Dad where you have, you know, he is physically active and...
So you are concerned because you have tried in the past but everything just seems to fall short when the goal is to not have that much weight to keep it off but you're still hopeful that there will be some noticeable improvements in coming months and that's very encouraging.
T. You might even be...
T. You wanna be a good role model for your kids.
T. Um, so your going to school and you're starting to think about moving.
T....and it sounds like he's very important to you...
T. But in actuality, the replacement therapy is probably not even good for you.
Um - huh. Ok, so it's important to you that you look at your art and maybe in a more in context than you did in the past. That you know where to
So, it's almost like a stress relief?
T. of how that's impacting your son's well being and his asthma and also your grandson's health.
It's very serious.
T. So it also kind of ties in together um, smoking and swimming. Being a good parent and grandparent, being able make those changes because you know, knowing how to modify probably. So that could contribute to maybe your, your ability to be a good grandparent in this case.
T. Right, yeah. So it sounds like, even with all the stuff you've mentioned
Ok. So, uh, and this, this is really important to you, this is really important to you, this is really important to you
T. Um, and although that may not be a problem in itself you know, you see the negative health effects that could be if you continue on that trajectory.
It's important to you...
Ok. It sounds like you know we've tried lots of things and there's just this...this kind of wariness, you know. But on the other hand you know you've tried lots of things and you know
T. And you even though your daughter might be very active right now.
So you're sort of starting to get a little concerned that you're not going to be able to make these changes and that this isn't sustainable.
T. Which you haven't really seen before. And you noticed that swimming affects your swimming
So you want to make these changes now and not let it get to the point where you might not end up like your father did.
So you see yourself, you see yourself really value, you see yourself really value, it's very important to you, having that energy and that kind of being able to push you around and push you around.
Okay. So, it sounds like, um, we've talked about a few things that have sounded like they might be helpful.
T Before doing it...
T. If you have a hands - free, you can -
It's very busy.
Yeah, so you are feeling really out of control maybe. And this is getting sort of frightening for you.
T. Yeah, you know, you just have to be extra hard on yourself.
T....or what's causing what...
...T....and maintaining your...
T. Um, and you know, you don't want to be that person.
Um...That would really help, because you feel like you'd be able to...uh..sort of release a lot of stress in your environment, and that would help you release your stress, and your confidence and...um...um, get through that part.
Okay. Sounds like you're really committed.
So, so you have a lot of - you have a lot of responsibilities to take care of, and you have a lot on your plate.
so it seems like you're pretty motivated to talk to somebody today so we can get some information and hopefully, I mean, see eye to eye and try and talk about what is, uh, what is working for you?
T. OK, and it's worrying you.
T. Uh, especially, um, breathing. It's, it's affecting your swimming
So talk to me about your values. Your diet.
T. So it's very difficult when you have children that you want to take care of and that you can't.
So, it sounds like you're afraid that quitting you won't be able to enjoy the life that you've been living since you started.
And, throughout the day you're tired out and you're cold. And, you're tired and you, you even though it's a habit you know, it's, it's a
Sometimes it's just, it's very frustrating.
T. That's not for you.
That's sort of scary though for you.
Yeah. So it sounds like you respect him a little bit 'cause he's someone who has, he's a supporter. A friend of mine recently said, you know, " you are a good person. " And I mean, he said, " You respect me. " So... I mean, he said that it was really important for him to know what his struggles were, because you wouldn't have it if you weren't. While you
T. Yes. That is a priority for you in that aspect.
Ok, so it sounds like that, yeah, you are very ready to get it
T. It's really important to you, it's calming you down.
So overall you feel like the programs you tried didn't work for you and you're just kind of looking for something that's gonna be a permanent solution to this,
T. And to have healthy, happy meals every single day.
T. OK, yea.
T....You know, the stress gets in the way of things you want to do and...
You want to make it a priority for you at all times.
You're afraid of those withdrawal symptoms.
And it helps you when you have these moments of where you're like...
That's gotta be something that's really important to you.
And a lot of that comes out of, you know, the fact that you're diabetic.
So...umm...maybe it's the time commitment that's the problem. I mean, it sounds like you, you're locked in to, to...um...to do it, it's something that's going to take a lot of your time and energy and you need time for the whole
- and see if it's -
T....is also a positive point for you.
T. Yeah, It's hard to imagine how you might make this huge transition since it's been such a big part of your life.
and you - It's hard to have that, that, bit of motivation to keep going.
So there wasn't as many restrictions. You were able to do some things that other people weren't able to do. Like come over, smoke cigarettes over dinner.
So you're worried that if you lose the weight that you might have some of the things that you really want to have
T. You want something more for them.
T. This is, its really important to you.
So you've been doing some research too.
T. So you've got the low - carb books, the low - sugar books, the low - meat options, the options, you brought a whole array of low - cal options out, like you said, get some more low - cal options out. So it sounds like you've put together a really good low - carb meal plan, it sounds like it hails from a place where you're really not wanting to be mean, you're not feeling mean about yourself, you know, or anyone else. You're just more,
T. May be something that would work for you, in terms of...
your kind of overwhelmed and ready to fight for your, for your family
T. And that's really important for you in kind of this context as well.
Sure. So, it sounds like you were trying to quit several times and it just couldn't seem to be able you did it. That kind of frustrates you, you know you want to try to quit but the withdrawal or other
So, you are, you are very goal oriented. And your drive is to quit smoking is very strong.
It's important to you to set a good example for them and show them that you're competent and can make these changes to improve your health and also that you'll, uhm, be able to control this by
T....and not have it get in the way of you doing your job.
T. And also, not just talk about healthy eating but talk about healthy and...
So that it was more an integral part of your day than just the food that you were eating.
T....and your confidence and all of those things.
So he would be very supportive, you know?
So, so you're at war with everything else in your life, and it's, um, this whole family is kind of an ally.
So, it seems like you're feeling like this is the big other big change that you will need in order to kind of feel confident in what you're choosing
hmm.
