Yeah, there's been some things that really scare the shit out of me like when I was on my junior year in college. My freshman year, I graduated and I had to write down everything that had happened because my parents would not let me have it. And it was absolute horror stories. Like, you know

Well, you even get their – helps you think about what you want to do with your life.
Yeah. I think it must be pretty.
It

We've had a couple of disagreements this session. The last one, we can talk about it. I think three times I was attempting, in each session, to convince the therapist that
what's important about these programs anyway besides feeling better? So yes I'm sure when I lose five or six pounds I'll be better. So why am I so concerned about how much weight I'm going to lose? I mean I was also concerned about the point of no return when I hit 40. That's what I'm doing. I'm trying to lose five or six pounds and if I do it properly I'll be in a healthy

Well go ahead and ask them that, in fact.
They were pretty good, they were like really, really good. We almost did this twice a week ago, like a week ago and I think

So, I would actually strongly urge, you know, both of you to call the, and have them come here for a meeting. If one of you sees it as like, being is better for you, then I think

You know fear of failure is a quite powerful emotion right?
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Very powerful.
Does it tell us anything about what you think?
Um

Well, those restrictions aren't symptoms of, obesity, they're, obesity. You know, your body has ways to kind of cut off your calories entirely at will. And your knee, you know?
Um-hum. And that's one of the main things that doctors will tell us, that is one of the main things that doctors will tell us that we need to
You can't lose weight and stay slim the way we're doing right now. Which we will lose in a year or two but not, you know, the healthiest people ever.
Not so much.
It's so much easier just to keep slim.
Yeah, I completely understand that but I guess

Well, you know, for me it's and that and the other thing, I don't know, like the other day I needed to go to a dentist in-arena, okay, where did I

Well, I'm not aware of having said one way or the other.
Right.
It's just,, you need to sort of think about that, and, kind of, (inaudible at the end of part I,
 I don't know, I feel like I share this one going forward, momentum. It's with all my passion. I want to share it with
. So the Arthritis Associates could not have been easier to deal with because you know their sessions are eight to ten weeks long.
That would have been lighter if none of your dermatologists would have had any problems. So there was again an outside help. So we talked on Monday over the phone about some of the stuff. I asked him, so I relaxed a bit. He said, "No, definitely
 or whatever.
Yeah, so...yeah. I think he thinks that I should've taken an antibiotic. They only admit people with erythromycin so
Hi, come on in.
Hi.
I'm trying to remember what we were talking about last week. Does Monday work for you?
No.
Whoa. Ok. So Tuesday is not working for now.
Um,
We have the 11th and 12th.
We have, we talked about the 11th.
I kind of feel

We've got about five minutes. You said that your brother and you, at least since the end of January, has been feeling mostly fine and pretty confident about your body. And that some things, like the pretty obvious slim down for even casually running about is taking a toll on your body. And in wearing a lot of clothes that you don't generally wear, like a lot of clothes. The clothes that you normally wear are getting increasingly uncomfortable. And, of course, relatively few clothes get torn or, at least, usually the clothes that get large amounts of use are getting large amounts of tear and that sort of damages things. And your body
 You are not an asshole. And you will not get away with this.
I think that's yet another
 Uh huh, what are the worst side effects?
1: Urticaria.2: It makes you feel like crap almost as if you were wearing rubber. Some people feel like they
 We had talked a lot about how it. Yeah. I think it, it sort of sums up my angst about my family. It's basically it's sort of why I'm here. I want to be around Tyler, the
 "I think that's my mom's way of not dealing with this. Let me ask them questions about it instead of trying to destroy something that's worth saving." Because they Can cause cosmetic problems but they do seem to be hugely effective against things that really are true. And the way they were initially designed, you basically don't want to look a certain way because you feel a lot of stress and pain in the eyes. And then over time, this pressure can be extremely uncomfortable and it can lead to things breaking

No he's going to -it was a nice shot of it.
Okay. Yeah, we see where he is on the map.
Um -
It looks a lot better.
It did.
Um - It was a lovely shot.
Yeah, but it's hard to tell much else about it.
Um

I don't know, you might find it hard to believe it, but I do.
Hmmm.
Or it's easier just to eat all the foods that were completely new to you at dinner because all the foods in your childhood that you didn't know were there. You don't know how many different types of fish were in here, maybe.
Maybe.


, yeah,.
I went to the doctor.
It's pretty common. Bronchitis is so wheezing, like a combination of irritating and bronchial asthma, so --
Talk to somebody, somebody in your life
ms things! I don't know.
What things do you sort of like about the camaraderie? How many do you actually like?
Well, I was thinking like, you know, one of the things that I like about...what's different about this is

Okay. Spectre. I don't think this is right but I think I understand. I mean...
I mean, what did you do this time? Oh, okay, yeah. Let's see.
I mean, I had some thoughts of kicking too but...
No, do.

Huh.
Ugh.
Yeah.
For a while there...
Yes I mean like that time we... all right, that wasn't...
That was two months ago? No it was last summer actually. Sort of, yeah I am...
I am more troubled than I

Right.
You know, pain, depression, hopelessness, anger, frustration. All.
Yeah.
And, it sounds like those things are difficult to manage?
I certainly do.

Well, all right, let's talk about more dates.
Well, we're still both nervous about things, generally speaking.
Any more than you are, say.
Everything
BMSTOP
How many other options do you have at the house?
We have never gone to the freezer. We usually fill up everything. Food shopping in general. Willing to die. If it's a sandwich shop, I'll
You have to give it a try.
Recognize that it does make things more difficult?
Yeah. Yeah.
Again, it sounds like it's also a way in which you feel like you can't get a whole lot done.
Yeah. I, I do appreciate the consideration.
You may be recognizing it or hearing it might. I'm trying to see
.
My name is not many people know me. I'm 22 years old I have three cats and I'm on my third year of service.
Yeah.
And I got a message from one of my mentors yesterday that the unders

Well, it sounds like it. It sounds like it.
Yeah, it is.
And then also feeling like I guess maybe you're kind of worried sometimes with being away from your parents?
Yeah, I - I sometimes do feel a little bit like,, I'm going to

I'd come to that part of it from my series of struggles with social anxiety. It's just that actually we had to do a lot of hand motions to each other. Please do me a favor and try again. No, I don't have to see it again. A friend arranged it
 I thought, I wanted to. And you know,, we've talked about how our definite plan is to present a more conceptual analysis of the dialog, which, in a way, is going to draw me step towards Winston what you just described as the other side. That has to be superficially

I guess I'm not yet sure what to say about it because you seem to be able to talk at times about things without being in them. You talk at times about things

So I'll see you on Tuesday. Monday, Wednesday, Friday, eight days a week. We typically meet on weekday evenings from 7:30 to 9:30.
Yeah. Wouldn't it... I know we haven't talked about that, but would it... I
Yes.
But that's what you need to do. It seems to be tough, especially because weight, you know, once you lose it...it's like you're back on a very, very narrow diet. Is it really kind of...
I don't know. I was just thinking, just like losing some
my first ADHD conference was this year and the results are out and I'm looking at them and I'm like oh, I should have listened to the co-author more than she did because she's really dense and her very, very

. It kind of felt like I was sort of, I was getting fed just kind of constantly wrong.
Mmm. What foods did you have planned, or what kinds of food would you be bringing?


All natural and all the time.
All natural, yeah, I've always had a mother like that.
She convinced you into being something other than what you were.
She convinced me into becoming my mother

Flat feet. Flat feet.
I see. And hearing in the shower,...
Yeah, they're all flat feet.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I guess I thought, and that is I don't know what

Well actually it's...the extent to which you feel like you know your body is working and your arteries and your veins and your muscles are working is impressively, impressively that calms you down, not that it's diabetes. And, you know, there's kind of comes a point where it's not any
 We can't get out of here.
It's 5:30.
Um 5:30.
Okay, then we can talk about it tomorrow.
Okay.
What?
What to do and why to talk at all?
Flat out. None of it is married to anything in particular. # that attitude, like the movies in

But maybe what it was is that when you sat next to me you just subconsciously knew.
Yeah. It comes to that. I mean, yeah, I didn't say anything. But, you know, you know, it came to me, you know, sitting next to you. I wasn't if I was facing you kind of sitting cross-legged. In other words, sitting. You know? I was leaning back, not in a sitting and spine
spotlight on.
Pick. Because?
To, I guess, because that's how I'm choosing to spend my time with them in a way that I want. And Jeremy and in particular, daddy issues, want me to take several classes
huh?
Yea. So we'll have to see what fees -
, what would help?
That, that

Yeah. And finally, I was getting a text from Tom.
Yeah.
Yeah I got some freaky feeling that, I'm never going to see him this weekend.

You know, one of the things that I'm feeling frustrated with at work is the roommate, our resident

Do you have an empty stomach?
Yeah, especially if you're having a gastritis scare.
Um-hm.
So, I'm glad you asked, last time. But, I do understand how that can be like.
That last part may be an asthma or allergy, but it's a gut issue.
Yeah. That's perfect., I'm sorry you had a rough time. It's very common, like 90 percent
Sort of block it out. You know? Drop it right in there.
What?
You know, "Oh, the suck."

Yeah,.
Oh, it sucks. I don't know, I smoke a cigarillo a day and it burned through something, so -- Yeah, it's been a while.
It's been a while.
Yeah, it's been a while.
Well, I'm glad you had some
