Yeah, so you're feeling like this is something that you're already going through, and you're seeing some of the effects of that, even if it's not something that you're quite sure is going to lead to diabetes or you're not sure how to manage it.
So you really value - you want to be a good parent and you want to be in control.
It's scary.
It's frustrating to compare yourself to others in that situation.
So, in terms of the past you've been smoking a little bit at a time.
T. And I intend that you should be able to -
There's a little bit of fear because you're not sure where
So, that's an important part.
It's almost like your knee is like a model for your whole family.
It sounds like you're really, um, not quite ready to jump into the full spectrum of the drug and see what it can do.
So, there's definitely some things that have really been changing for you...
So you'd rather have time to focus on your exercise and your family.
Yeah, so you're a little bit concerned about your grandson's health.
60 days.
Mmm. So it sounds like you've mentioned some success in the past, and you said it's been very limited, so now it's really starting to concern you more.
You need to do something, you need to think about how to go about it.
T. But you did mention before that maybe the gum was not an option.
So 10:00 sounds like it's a good time
T. And... yeah. You don't want that to have to come between the relationships that you guys will be able to have.
So you've seen the effects first hand of what pre diabetes and diabetes could lead to.
So you've seen your dad
T. But at the same time you do want to make these changes and you do realize that these may not be the best option for you.
T...is part of your daily routine and kind of that breathing was troubling.
It sounds like you had some pretty great nights, and you can now add that it's very important for you to take your medications with you
I guess you're worried that it might ruin the relationship that you have with your family because your so, the withdrawal symptoms are so much that you take it out on your family.
T. has been a part of your life for a while now.
You mentioned your daughter, and also your grandchild.
T. Circumstances beyond your control
T. And also, uh, being that you said eight or nine, that's pretty important.
you mentioned also that you have a job.
Sometimes you just don't see any way to really make it -
So you're feeling a little bit disappointed that you didn't succeed in the past but that you're open to trying some other options.
So you've been smoking for awhile. You've tried quitting a few times. You've tried cold turkey, you've tried nicotine replacement therapy gums
so, it sounds like you really, you really need to, you really need to lose this weight and you don't wanna have to, you know, go to the doctor and have them prescribe you something to stick with, but at this point it sounds like they're not really in the picture as far as your health.
T....to help you in this process
So, it's just really frustrating for you.
and you feel like you have to do something in the next year, you have to do something in the next decade
T....is. And how it changes with you...
So, that's something, that's a positive for you. That's always nice to hear that, but you know, it sounds like you, that you had some setbacks, and you know, the one positive is that you're now able to do more, you know, you're able to do more, you know, independent work.
T. Um, and so we made you aware of the importance of taking your medications and how that might affect your swimming, um, your personal swimming you know, and where you can get more information.
Ya know so in the past you've gone for weight loss, you've lost a lot of weight, but then it was very difficult when you tried different programs in the past.
Yeah. You feel like it's important to take your medications and you're seeing how that's going to go?
So, it's something that you're really enjoy, it's just part of your daily routine. Um, you don't really have other people smoking around you, and so, smoking is something that you enjoy. So, it sounds like you really enjoy smoking and you don't want to be associated with another person like your family member, and so, in turn, you wanna just kind of be around and swim for as long as you want to.
So it's been pretty downhill from when you were fifteen that started the process of, of making change in your life.
It sounds like you have a lot on your plate already with your children and your work.
Sure. And so you're, you're considering um...
T. Um, during your lunch break.
So you're concerned because you just heard that some of the things that you've been experiencing, that you know, have got you really worried. In terms of your diet and where it might go in sthe future. You're concerned because you just recently found out that um, he's been hospitalized for an asthma attack and that might lead you to think about starting to take some steps to prevent that.
T. And that didn't work out for you as well.
It sounds like it's been frustrating, trying to quit.
T. And also, you know, your partner.
T. If they weren't being punished, you would have just stuck with them. And so you did. And so you were disappointed, you were disappointed in that decision.
47. Mmm hmm.
that you can get your body healed,
And there's some way that your adherence to those values might have an impact on your ability to be successful.
So you're - you're really committed to this, and you wanna make it a routine for you over time, um, as opposed to some of the other things that may seem more challenging right now.
Be able to have control.
T. Yeah living through your father.
And yet you're able to make these changes with medications.
I see, so it was pretty overwhelming to think that you were going to make that change and that you were going to have to maintain that change for forever.
So exploring, you know, some of the things that you might be doing to better, or to avoid becoming diabetic.
Yeah. And it sounds like that can even be a hard thing. Because it sounds like both your parents - um, were really supportive.
T. So you've tried a few things in the past and, um, they weren't successful, and this is really, um, really frustrating for you.
So you'd be hard put to put yourself back out there, given that you'd be making a - a change that might be more beneficial to you than -
you know, it's just important to you and your family.
Right. So, if you guys could sort of, like, talk to her about, about ways that, you know, like, she might be able to help you, or... you know, help you... to lose weight, and, and her concerns about you might be something that, you know, helps you with that. So...
You have a lot of, kind of, doubt about what you're trying to do and how sustainable it is.
And you noticed that when you started the medication that it made you dizzy.
So it sounds like if you go to a restaurant, you're just going to have to suffer through that.
It sounds like they're not going to be too much of a problem for you.
So you're fearful of trying to quit smoking.
T. So you've struggled with your weight all your life and you're not sure you'll ever be able to get it in control.
And you were through a whole lot, so it was very important to take them.
I mean you have the family and you have the support of your husband and you can take care of the kids and you don't really have that extra support which makes it even harder.
So, that's another particular concern to you because you've seen this with other members of your family and you're pretty worried that this could potentially lead to diabetes and you don't want that same thing to happen to you.
Right. And you can then choose which route you wanna take.
You make those changes when you're in a more stable and a single mom.
So you're really trying to find a balance that you can feel you can maintain in your life.
Um, so you believe that your food is the key to success because it's the source of all your goals and you don't want to have to think about.
It sounds like you are, you are a working mother, full time teacher full time. You have two teenage sons. You are very concerned about your weight and you see a connection between that and, um... being a good parent, and also your smoking.
T. Um, and... Just kind of remembering things around you.
T. Yeah ; and, you don't like, the fact that this is taking over is just kind of frustrating.
T. Your grandson, and then especially with your -
Okay. So you are irritable and you're afraid of, you know, what might happen to your health if you give up smoking.
Right. Because you haven't done anything in the past
T. Especially when you are taking medications with people who really need you to get them.
Ok, so it sounds like you're, you're very open minded and you're not willing to have that, you know, negative option at the end.
T. That might be a little bit of, of additional, um, support.
T. Um and so you said you usually eat out four to five days at a time.
T. It made the bronchitis worse.
You have a lot of concerns about this diagnosis and its implications.
T. Um, so, you've tried, you've tried a number of different things, and you're finding that the one that's most effective is the diet that you've tried.
And um so it sounds like you have a lot on your plate already with your children and your work.
So there have been multiple quit attempts...
So eight is really important for you
So you've tried before in the past and you're worried about the...the successfullness and it seems like you're not entirely confident about...
It's just a little despair from repeated efforts that haven't turned out the way you wanted
T. And keep going
Um and so how about some diet, you mentioned fruits and vegetables
So, you're not so much into smoking as you used to.
And so you really just want to keep up with your family, and be healthy, and be able to go out and do the things that you enjoy.
It sounds like you have a lot of fun with reading.
T. So you mentioned, um...you know, it sounds like there are some... restaurants that you know that you've been to that you know have really great reviews from.
T. It's frustrating to compare yourself to others in that situation and see how difficult it is to maintain weight in that sometimes it's easier for people to go on programs where you feel more confident and get more results.
Um, you were diagnosed with pre - diabetes.
A good eight?
You also mentioned that you exercise through your swimming.
About an 8
T. That is a vicious cycle.
T. The medications that you've tried in the past have kind of frustrated you, they haven't worked the way you hoped. And that's something that you'd like to avoid.
Um, so, you felt like it was very important to take action.
T. Okay, so this is what I'm hearing.
So it's important to maintain your adherence and to have the viral load up.
Right. So then you are going to worry about maybe repeating that. You have already talked about how you are going to use it, and how you are going to be using it as a stress reliever.
T. It's just kind of a reminder
And you're worried about the diet that you're going to try in the future.
T. You're feeling like it's just too much to do at this point.
Right. Yeah. You know, it sounds like you've had some pretty tough days, you know, coming in to your coffee short of breath and that. But even knowing that you're here to talk about things that are important, like quitting smoking, finding support of your family, and umm...
So you've got the reminder support
Yeah, you've been, you've been trying, but you just haven't... you've been struggling with it, you just haven't found success yet.
T. So maybe this year you just, you're noticing that pretty drastically.
Okay. So, um, you've mentioned that you've been active before in sports
Okay so you mentioned that you had like the side effect of the diet in the past and that didn't work very well.
It sounds like you have a lot going on during the day that's a lot to have on your plate
T. It's not something that you feel is instilled in you necessarily by destiny or inevitability
Ok so it sounds like you cant really increase your adherence some what to increase and some people say increase your confidence.
So, it sounds like you are very concerned about...even if there are some struggles in terms of thinking about losing weight, you are very confident that there is room for you to make those changes if you can figure out how to make those changes without having to have a long term partner or a support which is very important to you.
In terms of feeling good health, feeling competent, and...
That's something you definitely don't want
But at this point, you feel like you've gained it back.
So it's really important to you to get that energy back into your body.
Okay so your really, your really starting to feel these effects now not just in energy levels
T. Um, so you have some health concerns. Your daughter has a pre - diabetes diagnosis and she's very important to you, and you really want to make sure that she understands and understands, like, the importance of losing weight and preventing future health problems.
T. As well as maybe making the exercise part of your normal..
So, yeah, that's something that I'm hearing. You want to set a good example for them, so you've got the exercise and you're going to cook something healthy on that Sunday
Okay, so it is definitely something that you can explore...
Right. So you said you don't smoke around your grandson because he's like an affect - He's a big reason for you, and you really like to be around him.
T.... in the future. Um, you know, we talked about different options that um, like, you might trying quitting cold turkey, finding a replacement therapy that may be easier to take off the nicotine and just, you know, beginning some exercise that you can do on your own.
So it sounds like you were...you were able to do it before but it's been hard to get going
: Well, other than that, you feel strong.
And ( laughing )
T. But it's been a little bit at a time.
T. Ok. So, we like to eat healthy so...
apparently also having the side effect of the puss around the eyes.
So helps you kind of get through.
Right. And that's something that's really important for you, is that connection between your physical health and...
So it might fluctuate
Three or four?
you don't want to get medication quite yet.
So for you it sounds like your main concern today is the possibility of medication.
So you've tried the diets before but the weight watchers haven't really worked for you.
It sounds like you have a lot of support from him.
T. And your mom is overweight.
T. Or perhaps hearing something about some other options.
and for your concern of your family,
T. If you have a lot of people helping you, distraction around exercise.
So you said that your vision, the vision that you've had in the past, it's been blurred.
So you've had times where you've been able to quit a few times.
So you were, you were worried that you were going to get this chronic condition that you didn't know anything about and that you were going to get into. And now you seem to have some sort of help of that which is helpful to you.
Okay. So, it sounds like you've been smoking for a while and it's been affecting a couple different parts of your lives and you're seeing the whole breathing issue as potentially being a stress reliever and a way to get around.
In the four range?
Um, and so we talked about different options. So um, you know, you'd like to have something that would kind of help with, if you had some confidence to take it, but also didn't require as much energy per meal.
And, you don't want to eat that all the time
So it sounds like, uh, from what you've told me today, that it's very important to you, uh, to be a good role model for your kids. And, uh, when, uh, the issue comes up, you are very concerned about the, the time commitment and the amount of time that you're given. You've seen your kids grow up and then your mom is also a working mother.
So you are concerned about limitations that you may have in your life when you are trying to make these dietary changes and um, how does that compare to the things your dad and you know he is diagnosed with pre diabetes and has had that horrible diabetes and he is very active and has had to get out of the diabetes for a good amount of time.
So you're... You're a health care provider and, you think your smoking is very important to you...
Or a patch, to put on the side...
T. So, you know, you've tried, you've tried a few different things: uh, there's the gum, that was helpful, but also you've tried quitting cold turkey, that didn't really work out. And then, uh, you've tried other options that, uh, but it sounds like you're highly motivated to try to find a way that actually works for you and kind of be able to con -
And you value being healthy, especially your health of your children.
So for you your children are really important to you.
It's daunting, daunting task.
So it sounds like, y'know, if you had actually researched these five things beforehand, you might have been able to do other things that I'm talking about. For example, you know, you could have made that decision to go with the gum instead of the nicotine replacement therapy.
So changing your habits is very important to you because you said that you swim a few times a week so that is a good time to you,
136. Mm hmm.
T. And that you are able to cut back for a little bit.
So it's something you enjoy doing but you're nervous about how long it will be, how severe it will be
T....and you're here...
But lately it's dawned on you that you're not able to make anything and everything has fallen apart.
It's scary.
That's good, so it is pretty important to you to be a single parent.
So, that's sort of pretty close to middle ground.
T. And being a good parent, and, um being confident
You feel like he's not being allowed to be there...
T. Everything.
So which is why you're ready to try to find a balance between what you can do and what you think will work best for you.
So you see a lot of interest from different areas of your life to become a nurse practitioner.
And that you feel that you can shift your energy toward doing the things that you are more interested in.
T. That has left you very scared because you have seen some pretty drastic changes in your life, um. You see your dad seeing how the weight gain has all gone down and um, you know, that sounds like it is possibly something that you'd like to avoid, or, at least until things really start changing.
T. You just...
you've tried the nicotine and it sounds like it didn't quite, it didn't quite work.
So, you're not sure how to live that way.
T. So, just, just learning how to modify maybe. Not necessarily cutting everything out.
T. Okay, so you started when you were fifteen.
T. That are - there's some correlation to stress which you mentioned, but also some things that you associate with it.
T. Yeah. So you're, you're really committed to preventing diabetes from coming into your life.
OK, you sound pretty scared about things that you could be experiencing.
So, you've had some pretty, pretty bad experiences with quitting, and being able to stay quit during those times.
And you've mentioned that your family and, um, you've seen your dad take medications for his arthritis and it didn't work out so well for him.
Yeah, so you value your health and you value being active.
Deal with withdrawal symptoms
So energetic.
So, you're worried for your health and your family.
That kind of echoes what you were saying before about those things you value it's because you are able to do the things you did before.
So, it's important to you but, you don't wanna make it to a point where you feel like, you know, you're not... you're not allowed to be.
Like the side effects of smoking are really uncomfortable for you and you feel that it would be better to stick with a different option
Right so you want to be a really good example and a good role model for your children
So finding the time to do those things is really important to you.
T....from the withdrawal or other symptoms...
T. So making smaller changes.
so, you mentioned you would not do this cold turkey again.
T. And, no time is of the essence with you.
T. Um it was really important to you in that you were trying to quit and you were having some real issues with the bronchitis and you just didn't want to, um, had you thought that you could maybe stick with it for a little bit longer. So, it was really important to you in that you were trying to quit and you felt like you failed each time.
So you actually did write a letter to your daughter on Monday, in addition to the 10:00.
Yeah, it sounds like there are a lot of things that are holding you back or that you wouldn't mind just going on your own and doing what you think will be best for you.
It's a non - prescription medicine.
T. So it's in your family and it's in your own hands and it's in your life but your thinking it's also the plan and it's something that you are going to have in control of.
175. Right.
Ok. So it sounds like you were, maybe somewhat concerned about how, even with the two fad diets that you've tried in the past that you might be able to make them healthier and if they could be made to swap.
Um, so that's really scary.
I mean you really enjoy it. You like to be able to have a cigarette.
T. Raising your kids and making sure that they're healthy, umm before you think about yourself so much.
Okay. Um, and you've tried multiple things. You've tried th - the, the gum and that didn't go well. So there's some fear that if I can manage this time, how will I be? Will people -
It seems like it may be a good option to you.
Um... So you're on the HIV meds because you've had some pretty bad side effects with the other medications that you've tried in the past.
So you're really motivated to quit smoking.
So really you haven't had any side effects and you've been able to do the things you've wanted to do for you know, you've done them successfully
And you didn't mention any of these other things. But I can tell that your, uh, your concerns are really being worked on.
you take them for yourself and nobody else talking them for you.
- and that you value that -
So, that's an option is to you know. And then you did say about not being hypocritical.
T. And you didn't like being overweight. Umm, why were you feeling that way.
So it sounds like if we were going to, we would do well to go out and eat breakfast at this little bit of a time.
T. The gum is not an option.
it's really important, it's something that you said you want to work on, but you're struggling with how to do it so much.
...as well as the fact that you're starting to see some effects of the smoking, even though you're not necessarily gonna give it up all the way, that you're gonna try to do it to the maximum amount of...
Okay, celery.
So it sounds like you have a lot of things going on during the day that kind of make it difficult, but overall you get a lot done, you get exercise, and that's really important to you.
T. And, this is a developing situation. So developing for you means being able to have more energy and be able to do more, you know, to your environment and to your family.
so it looks like you forgot your... to take your medications.
And um the time efficiency is very important to you as well.
Sometimes you don't end up finishing what you say you're going to do.
It's something that you can kinda, you know, you can kind of hold in control, it's just part of your daily routine.
Seven or eight.
T. You're really stressed out at work. Uh, and... Even with you know your important things like swimming, you're very busy and so smoking is maybe the thing that breaks through.
Sure. You're having some concerns about your daughter's health and that that that might continue to have an impact by eating this much meat.
T. For your children and for your own health.
And you feel confident that you can do it again
That's also part of why you say that you want to keep it off.
So you're concerned because you...
So, quality versus quantity
- whether or not that would even be effective.
T. - and possibly causing him some pain.
So you've mentioned that at this point, you've tried quitting multiple times.
Um. You might be doing some fun things with your kids, you know, but you also, you don't want to feel like you're restricted.
So, discipline is really important to you.
So, you know, you've mentioned that, you know, you tried the nicotine gum.
So, so you're struggling to keep it away from you and you're afraid that it's eventually gonna hurt you too.
49. Um - hmm.
So um, you've been diagnosed with pre - diabetes and you're terrified because you are not eating right.
Okay. So you're thinking, you know, it sounds like you've had a couple of things in mind that you've tried in the past ; but you feel that there's some things that you haven't experienced that are really important to you, that you need to work on.
Okay. So even though the shingles are scary you didn't think about getting sick again.
T. Right. So, even though there are some down sides to it, you like the option it gives you and don't want to take it again.
And you've tried it before. You've tried it cold turkey, you tried the nicotine gum. But it didnt seem to work.
That is a big risk.
So your, so your role as a parent, to be a good parent, is really important to you in the grand scheme of things.
T. You want to spend time with your grandson.
And then, uh, being confident
and I noticed you didn't mention your husband
T. And, you also mentioned that you exercise through your swimming.
you've had some experience, you've seen what happened to your father and you don't want to go down that path yourself.
So you're in trouble because you're having some pretty bad results.
So it is kinda like the health of your body.
So you're really, you're really confident that you can do this.
T. Again, you feel like you would be able to do it if you cooked it right.
T. If you don't mind me summarizing. So, um, you've recently been diagnosed with pre - diabetes and you even though your daughter might be very active right now. In terms of caring for her. Um, because your son might be very active right now. Because your daughter is very concerned with her own weight. And even though your daughter might be very active right now. Because her own father and the rest of his family is really concerned with the diabetes. Um, and you're just really concerned about how that's impacting both your physical activity and your personal life in a good way. Um, you're really starting to see the effects of
So it sounds like from what you've told me today that, that's something you're interested in hearing about from your doctor. That is why you're here.
T. And it's scary to read,
I'm just going to kind of be kind of out of the picture, you know, just someplace to go, you know, talk to people you know, like wherever you work, and it would be more comfortable for you.
Okay. And so you're hopeful that...
On the one hand, you really need to have that motivation to keep going and see your grandson grow up and then on the other hand, you're scared that if you don't do something then your family might not be as supportive of you as you need to be.
So, it sounds like it's something you're beginning to get a little concerned about.
T. And being able to spend time with him...
I want to be around to play with your grandchildren
Yeah. um, it's always nice to have somebody taking care of you, but especially after you've seen your father suffer through the same condition, and just how that condition connects with you know
So, it sounds like you've had some experience with giving up, um, and it just hasn't worked out for you the way you'd like it to.
so you feel like it's a reminder or a reminder from God that you need to take your meds.
T. and maybe using some sort of alarm or something to get you on the proper track to quitting smoking
Sounds like that's something you would like to do.
T. So, you mentioned changing your diet to a more healthy diet.
So you're kind of stuck in a all or nothing feeling. You don't want to feel like you're eating all the things that you want to eat.
So you say that the easiest way is to just go to the library and have a little bit of help there.
T. But that three or four packs, almost, in like, just being able to have that, um, relief in the car as opposed to just going to the cigarettes and quitting cold turkey, that it would really help.
T. The diabetes is kind of the number one concern. And, you know, the fact that um, the medications that are kind of help, you know, to control you're at a higher risk of developing diabetes and you're at a higher risk of having your life values go down.
T. Okay, so you started when you were fifteen.
T. Because you're not starting to see the health benefits of smoking
T. That you see yourself really having a positive attitude now and that you're not just going to feel these negative effects in the future.
But you don't want to be mean and shoot people down when their offering you the treats.
So, it sounds like your knee is sort of, umm... having some issues with your right knee, and you don't really want to get another type of exercise.
- you know, a distraction from things other people's stress.
T. So you said you'd be open to trying some exercise.
So it sounds like you're generally interested in making healthier choices when you go out to eat.
t. And its really important for you to maintain your health.
- for, say, within the next month or so
T. - uhmm... finding something that would be healthy on that schedule.
You really feel ready to make the change.
So, you're afraid you'll be going down the same path your father's gone down, that you'll be having some similar outcomes?
T. And it's very important to you.
Yeah, so it sounds like you$: You are really concerned about having that big chunk of your coin left for the future.
It sounds like you've done it well, you just want to keep pushing.
So you mentioned that you tried the nicotine gum.
So lack of sleep.
You are not very social and that is what you like to do.
about the same, I guess.
Or maybe it just doesn't work for you.
And you were saying your family is really important to you...
So not enough that it makes it scary or so vivid that you wake up in a panic...okay.
Right it's always there for you.
T. And still have that family time. So I'm hearing that you, uh, you've recently found out that Atkins are not, are not a good option for you. And so if you can work with your family to kind of move forward with that, that that that might be something that's beneficial.
T. So you mentioned just now your family and, and your drive.
T. Yeah. You have a lot of, um, potential, and you don't think that you can do it. You're afraid that, you know, you might end up like your father.
So, you tried a few things in the past but these have all gone terribly bad. So, you seem pretty overwhelmed with this new diagnosis and where to go.
So we talked about how important it is for you to take your meds and how that might affect your ability to be successful. And you already mentioned that um it's a 10
Right, so it sounds like there's some financial incentive as well.
It's tough for everybody.
- if they compare, or any of the other things that you wanted to do to, I guess, address the success rate and -
So on the one hand, if you are a stay at home mom, then it's easy, you know, just take the time to go out and eat.
T. And it's just, it's hard to maintain.
