It's terrifying to you.
you're absolutely sure that you can have this conversation.
And, it's something that, um, you wanna continue on, being able to do.
T. It sounds like you feel a little bit dejected that things you've tried in the past didn't work for you.
Ok, well it sounds like we've explored quite a few options today and um sounds like you have a pretty good idea of some steps to start, would it
T. And there's a lot of decisions that need to be made, and -
A little more fear
And engage with your kids.
T. Aw that's gotta be kind of a troublesome feeling. To feel like you can't.
So the constant reminder, having to think about the fact that you had it, your pills are a reminder of that.
eah, you're really scared. I mean you see a lot of, kind of, the effects or where this could go and you're really worried.
T. So you'd rather spend that time hanging out with your children
Mmhhhhmm, Mmmhhhhmmm. Yeah, so it sounds like smoking really helped you reach some standards or some goals you have for yourself professionaly at work. It is also holding you back from other standards, other things you want to be doing. Like swimming and you know, taking care of your health like that. And also, building the relationship that you want with your grandson.
That's a long time.
So if you made small steps, small signs of progress.
Okay so it sounds like your family issues. You see your family sort of struggle with this as well and that's played a role in the fear you have in the future.
T. And it's, it's hard to have that mentality.
Ready to go to sleep, yeah.
It sounds like, um, this is something that's super important to you, right now... especially at this point in your life.
So in your minds, these things are all around you all the time. You've seen them go on.
Frightening, yeah so the future possibility is, is scary.
T. Ummm, although your daughter's now, kind of, becoming concerned, right, and so, so maybe umm, you can now, with exercise it might be more difficult to start doing that, and if you could some make some kind of change in your diet, umm, that could be a good start.
So it sounds like, you know, swimming...
Looks like a supportive environment...
And that's what happened in the past when you tried to quit before?
T. You, you tried the gum, but just, it didn't compare to smoking, it wasn't the same, even with the nicotine being in there...
They're like the most important thing to you.
T. So sounds like you almost sound helpless when the only options available right now are fast food options.
T. Then there's also this part with your grandson. Uh, he, recently was, uh, was having some asthma problems, and you, uh, feel like you wanna, uh, you don't wanna smoke around him.
So family is one of them.
you can never seem to get below a pack.
You're looking for something a little bit stronger to make it a little bit easier.
So, you, you have, your family has a history of diabetes and you've been given this pre - diabetes diagnosis, that you're not diabetic yet, so, so that's good. Um, but you do want to make some changes to make sure that that doesn't go any further towards progression.
So you really really responsibility to responsibility in your own health and and this being, you know, a a duty for yourself to do.
T. For maybe a little bit healthier options.
That's why you are upset about that.
T:Yea you have to start to making steps
T. Should actually look like, and what kind of things you should actually be doing.
So your health has always been a priority for you.
T. Um, and then your grandson developing asthma has been, you know, a real shock to you and um, has been very scary.
So it sounds like you tried a lot of different things and also seen its health effects and are really concerned about it.
And like you said that's all tied into, you know, that's one of the responsibilities that you want to do and keeps you healthy and happy, so
Right, sometimes it's an unconscious action as well.
Okay. So, since you tried those couple times and it didn't work out for the long term, that sort of decreases how confident you are in yourself that you'll be able to do it this time if you decided to.
Yeah, you're exhausted.
T. You've heard some pretty scary things.
T. Um. Unfortunately you don't have sidewalks where you're, where you live in your neighborhood, so that makes it difficult, maybe to go out and walk at night.
So, it sounds like that you're starting to notice how smoking is beginning to effect things in your life that are important to you. Your swimming, your time with your grandson ; clearly, being a grandparent is very important to you.
Which maybe could've, ah, dealt with the cravings better. It also didn't seem like a pleasant experience for you as well.
And a little bit challenging.
T. So that's really important. So it seems like there'd be a lot of pros, you know, not just the health thing, you know, a lot of ways that you feel about yourself emotionally
so then I guess you want to include them.
94. Mmm hmm.
for the future and hope
And you to good community member, responsible, competent, healthy, considerate, energetic, knowledgeable, disciplined, strong, and on top of things.
So I'm hearing that the stress management is a really big factor for you. You want that immediate sense of calm that you get from cigarettes.
So, just to kind of sum it up here, we're gonna wrap up the session ; We talked about the whole, the whole smoking issue before it was....To continue on from that, you really want to quit and umm, you're motivated and it's really important to you but you're, you're pretty terrified that you're gonna, kinda drop the ball again.
T. And now your concerned that your like slowly on this trajectory.
yea that is a lot of responsibility and it leaves you very little time for yourself, it must be really difficult.
OK, so, yeah, maybe not so much the fact that it was overwhelming, but just that you were frustrated with not knowing how to implement it long - term?
And um, so I'm hearing that you're pretty terrified by this, by the prospect of this.
You really care for your family and you want them to see you in a positive light.
Yeah, so it's almost, it's not just a frustration, it's a - it's - it's a real, it's a real sore spot.
While there are some benefit to having the cigarettes you notice that maybe it's - it's affecting your life in a way you're not comfortable with, with the smell and the - y'know - you're not able to smoke in as many places as you may once have been able to.
Which is the dehydration.
Ok. So, it's important to you to, um, so we've discussed a few things. I mean, you have concerns about your weight, as far as your health. But it's also important, it sounds like it's important to you to be a good example for your children. And to also live a long life so you can be there for them.
Right, so this is obviously a very somewhat, very difficult for you, your family history with your father, you're really terrified that it will happen to you, and also your children seeing. You don't want them to go through that. So, It's very difficult, it's also very important to you do want to be a role model.
Sounds like in the past the side effects really made it difficult.
Well it sounds like you would really feel, um, empowered if you could get some really good information from one of our nutrition specialists. That, um, and... and that's their specialty.
So it will be an interesting family dynamic...
Um, so and then, but you have it at an 8, which is pretty high.... And you said that's because you really care about your family, um, you... you think it's important for your health, which is something that is important both for yourself and for the people around you.
So, you seem pretty...you seem pretty upset about it.
And you value your children, and you value being a good parent. And because of what you've been through in the past, it sounds like, even though you struggle with it constantly, you want to feel better.
you are the mother and the father for the teenage years
So, this sounds like a very scary thing -- this diagnosis that you've just been given?
And you mentioned also, you know, getting them a little bit more involved.
Right. And, and, and, so, like there's, there's some things that you, you might not have to take the fast food and the take - out but you just don't see a way around it.
And you don't want to be a burden to them or to your kids.
T. Okay. And so it sounds like you do like to eat some sweets and cookies.
If that's okay. Um... so, uh, you went in to get a test then. To deter... to determine if, uh, what your diabetes level could be.
T. Um, and then stress.
T. You like to be in control of your life.
T. Your grandson being affected with asthma.
Uh - huh, okay. So he sounds like a good supporter, but he would like you to do it in the kind of incremental way that we just talked about?
Just to recap, it sounds like the patch is going to be your first step, aside from this form.
Well, I hear you, you know, saying that this is such a source of support and you actually referred to it as a friend.
You've tried it before, and it didn't work.
And then also involving them in the cooking a little bit and getting them a little bit more interested and maybe
Yeah, great. Well um, it sounds like it's, it's fairly important to you, um, can you tell me a little bit more about what um this, this diagnosis of the pre - diabetes might mean to you in the long term and how you're sort feeling about that.
- but it didnt seem to work.
T. It's suddenly more personal.
T. And we're not, it's not something that, um, we're ready for.
It sounds like you have a lot on your plate already so and you said your a single mother.
Three quit attempts. OK. And each time has had a varying amount of time when you've been able to stay off...
An eight. Okay, well thats important.
Ok, so right now you're feeling very motivated ; that this is something you want to see happen...
So you're concerned that regardless of what you do you may end up with diabetes.
T. because, this is um a difficult change for you to make
Um hmmm okay so there are some options? As far as...
Yeah. So it's, I guess it's been somewhat difficult for you to, you know, this is an activity that you've grown up doing that you really enjoy doing in the past, and you still enjoy doing now, but, I guess the social environment has changed where it can be really difficult because, you know, you get, like, people may judge you or like, you may not feel as accepted doing this behaviour as you once did, maybe.
Well that sounds like that's helpful for you to remind you to take your medications.
Ok, so there's all these associations
And it sounds like... uhm... that you, you'll be able to make choice for yourself if you have something, may be some more... ah... guidance.
T. It it sounds like um you've tried other things in the past maybe it wasn't as as important as it seems to you to you now. So now it's been the big wakeup call, the big diagnosis.
So you've told me about how you're such a busy person being a single mom and a teacher you're kind of rushing around all day and as it stands know you're kind of grabbing food on the go whether that be snacks in the office or you know, some restaurants on the way home with the kids.
So, it sounds like it's pretty important.
So you definitely found some programs that might have been helpful initially, and then it all came back.
bout a 3 or a 4, okay well that's pretty low.
T. [?? phrase ].
T. So maybe something else to add on top of that.
So, when you are smoking, you're not really having those health consequences ; no one has diagnosed you with anything. Um, just the recent bronchitis is something that, um, may be, a little nit related to your smoking. Um, but, when you don't smoke, you have withdrawal symptoms and, you know, are hard to be around.
It's hard because you do feel trapped and isolated and its like a situation where
Lasting as long as possible and this so what he or she said this is your last regimen.
Or, you said, mostly you just want to know about the nutrition labeling
It's harder to kinda dissociate from it
T. And so finding a diet in addition to being tasty and in your budget is finding something that you feel like everyone's going to be okay with for more than a couple of months.
And you mentioned the class, it's another class for you to take, plus you have to eat to lose weight and you need to start exercise thingy too, watch what you're eating, and you're feeling concerned about the prediabetic diagnosis.
Well good for you, well it looks like your adherence is going really well, and hopefully when you get that alarm set and your backpack, you know, that'll just be a couple of other tools that you have...
Exactly, you are motivated.
So to get into a higher confidence level...
So kind of like your on a slow trajectory towards this your starting to feel worse and worse.
T. So, uhm, it seems like it might be a little scary
It sound like you have a good idea about what to look for when you go out to eat. you can look at calories. you know that you can get that lower fat option when you go out to eat and then you can start to have a nice meal with your kids. but you have made a better choice. It also sounds like you might be interested in doing some kind of fun cooking especially those that doesn't take too much time. you know especially with your daughter.
So your schedule and your kids really influence your meal choices then?
So you quit smoking cold turkey. by going cold turkey and by using nicotine gum.
so maintain adherence ok, was there anything in particular that was helpful or stuck out from us talking to one another, I guess what you took out of this
ah recently ah your doctor told you ah that you've pre diabetes, representing your family. Your father had it, ah, sounds, ah it sounds like ah you are afraid of it progressing to the next level of diabetes but even more so, it sounds like that you're afraid you won't be able to stick to a sustainable plan for the future.
T. Not just, um... not just something that is just your problem but maybe something everybody...or something that you're struggling with but something for the whole family.
And seeing, you know, your father go through the whole progression of diabetes is a scary thing. And you don't want that for yourself,
T. Um, so it's frustrating for you and you really... It's really important for you to be a good role model for your kids and to be around for your kids. Um, especially for your daughter who's also dealing with some, some weight issues.
Yeah. You enjoy that kind of healthy feeling.
So you wanna eat healthier you wanna get this under control and your recognizing that
Ok, so um basically you're a teacher, and you have two children, and your lifestyle is pretty busy, um, your day starts with just kind of rushing to get your children out of the door. And then your um school day is filled with you know tons of other kids and business.
T. Either a support group of some sort or um, a telephone quit line.
And you're feeling like maybe that changing your diet may be one way to do that.
No, yeah it is definitely hard. And you're, you're worried, you're scared, you know that this runs in your family and now you've kida been told, um, that this is something you have to face the reality of, um, you feel that you are ready to start, to start changing it and doing something about it?
So when you tried to quite cold turkey, you kind of felt you weren't yourself
...is the goal.
Because we've tried before
so the side effects. The worst part has been your dreams.
okay, So it's really becoming second nature for you it sounds like
T. And, uh, you've tried dealing with it in the past, maybe didn't go as well as you had hoped,
Okay, yeah. So you feel like there's just so much going on that, kind of, being able to make those decisions that maybe in a perfect world you could make
yeah even with that side effect you've still been taking your
And you also mentioned keeps you from getting depressed.
Well, that is awesome. And it sounds like you have some really important people around you that can help you with this process.
From time to time just depending on when...
So, sounds like maybe your a little frustrated because you've tried to quit before but things just don't seem to be, um, working for you.
that's a concern of yours, that you don't want to do medication at all but your at a stage
So it seems that you have some knowledge on this. What you saw on tv...
So you've kinda done a lot of different diet programs, seems like.
Being a single parent. That's a lot of work.
T. Your dad is diabetic and he's still dialysis and so a [?? ]
Um, or the nutritionist. Also, trying to find different ways to incorporate faster, faster meal preparation or better choices at the, at the restaurant.
Not necessarily
Is kind of difficult for you, and after you've gained the weight back you feel kind of defeated and just you know I've tried so hard to lose the weight and I was able to for this short amount of time so it doesn't feel like it's something that um can happen long term.
Yeah when you find the right combination that works for you without all those side effects that you can't you know
Okay. Alright. So, you've tried a few times, and it's just a really, really difficult obstacle to overcome and you have a lot of motivation to come and quit but you're looking for some help in terms of solutions and how to make it more effective this time.
So I'm hearing you say that you've been very successful at being a good parent, especially in a really hard time when you were going through divorce. And that you held your family together. Successfully.
And so stress is one of the things that....
Four range?
Okay. Okay. So we know that there are some things that maybe are not going to work as well given, given the history of trying to quit smoking before.
So, you're thinking that if you got your daughter on - board, if she can come to accept this, maybe talk to her, and see what she's thinking
You need time for you.
T. Ok, so you would like to get some starting points, um some things laid out today.
Um, so, as of recently, um, you have experienced some health... or, negative health consequences. But, they haven't been so serious... to where you feel like it's causing a major rift in your life, or, something that you need to do, immediately. Um, but you are saying some things that are worrying you for the future
Um, and, it can mention, you mentioned cold turkey and the chewing gum weren't for you,
One that really fits for you in terms of not disrupting your schedule, your ability, or your relationships with your family.
Mhmm, and your faith too, you talked about that last week, your faith in God helps you as well with that, and you feel like that your adherence, you taking your medicine is sort of a must for you, because you can tell the difference between feeling bad and feeling good.
T. [ laughter ] So there's that added pressure.
Yeah it sounds like, ah, you are afraid of, ah, having change that... things that are important to you
In addition
Change your habits
137. Mm hmm.
T. It's not as stressful time as when you're at work having to lay people off.
Mmhmm, so ya know it relieves stress but I think it most importantly a really essential part, an essential part or your life and taking it away almost feels like your taking away some really big part of you that you've been living for the past couple years
T...and you want to commit to it.
T. Except for when it comes to smoking.
On top of that, your grandson sounds like he's very important to you.
So he's not really someone in the picture.
Four and five?
T. Um, it sounds like a lot of your choices are made because of your kids. You're a single mom.
But you've tried before, and so...you're thinking about trying again. So you have some experience to draw on.
So keeping those relationships close and also communicating with those different...
T. That's not good for you.
So really preparing yourself...
T. And feel that you can, you know, shift your energy towards spending time with your grandson rather than focusing on the stress that smoking is causing in your life.
- and that's really very frightening for you, um, at a personal level - y'know, you're concerned about your health, your knee is hurting, um, and you've seen this happen - you've seen this play out in your parents' lives. And, um, that's really - that's really hard to see, and that's really hard for you, um, and then you type out this cross - generational thing and your daughter is expressing concern, and, um, you really don't want to go down the same path as your parents -
...you're just in a bad mood because you're missing something that you really need.
Um, but it sounds like you, um, you want to have that feeling of control, and that you want to have a plan.
Yeah, what works with your lifestyle.
T. But learning how to modify.
T. Then in college you increased that amount significantly it sounds like.
T. Being with your grandson...
So, um, you look really concerned.
So you've got the family history. You've got some of this, um...it's been hard watching your father go through this.
T. Yeah, sure. Well and you know, you said you've been smoking for forty years now.
ok. And importance uh, uh, you're at the highest. You have kinda explained to me about why it is important for you.
Health and active, and health?
So, um, if I could summarize, it sounds like you're interested in talking to your doctor and letting more, maybe even, maybe I could give you a website or a phone number online to learn more about it yourself and know where to go on the internet.
So parenting, being responsible, not hypocritical and energetic.
You must be really worried
Okay, healthy and active.
So, once you, actually, can say, " I... I've made the steps to get help and I quit, " then you can say it's that important.
So it sounds like smoking involves kind of a lot in your life, It is not actually smoking but its kind of a social thing too and its important whatever plan that we create that you maybe have a social aspect too
Right yea you are looking for some really good results.
T. Yeah. You don't want to be constantly focused on it.
T....Just, were just too much. So it, it you know, you tried some different options, and stuff being important to you, but those specific options didn't seem to work.
You can make switches so it's still what you consider your normal diet but a different variation of that. So, yeah switching around regular coke to diet is a great idea. It will probably cut out a lot of those calories and sugar because you're worried about the diabetes aspect of it not just the weight aspect of it. It's not about appearances. It's about your body and what it is for your family and the sugar, which is a huge part of the diabetes aspect.
T. and for yourself
Okay. So, I'm hearing that you need to find something that's going to be really convenient. So, maybe that's why fad diets were really appealing in the past because they promised quick results with minimal efforts.
So it kind of sounds like the withdrawal from smoking had kind of little side effects which really made it really hard to quit becoming a huge struggle.
So that's a good way to get your day started
Well, I guess that we've talked a little bit about the two different drugs that we may recommend, the Chantix and the Zyban. And there are also some support groups that we could keep you in contact with.
Chantix, there you go!
T. You are frustrated of the fact that you can actually change this, that this habit is actually controlling you.
so it's affecting your swimming
Mmhmm. Cause sometimes the pills are are pretty big.
Mmm hmm, and you know that's not true because of other things that you've done really successfully.
On one hand you know it's not a good thing for your health. On the other hand it sounds like you enjoy it, it is enjoyable to you.
T. Umm. Your kids. Umm, making sure that their healthy.
T. And um, um, there's this kind of battle if I want to, but then there are all these problems that I've had before, and can I manage this time?
so that sounds doable, and, um, we also mentioned, earlier, talking about sort of thinking about alternatives to smoking. You know, it sounds like because it is such a big part of your day,
So, it sounds like recently, you've become much more motivated to quit smoking. And, specifically, to cut back. You've noticed that for your swimming, it's decreased your ability to swim, and also being around your grandson with his recent asthma attack ; you really don't want to be smoking around him.
That's 'cause your smoking is affecting your - things you enjoy as well
Mhum, so you really don't want to get sick again?
So you're concerned that she's starting to have these issues with her weight ( stutters ). Excuse me. - at such a young age.
you actually need this medication and so
- as you consider this -
Okay. So, so definitely being a good parent, you see, you see that playing into, you know, your choices and eating and what you give to your kids and you're kind of concerned that, you know, by, by giving them food from McDonald's or food from Wendy's that you're not really providing for them, you know, the way that you want to be.
I know that you mentioned your family is very important to you.
Yeah, generally cafeterias, you know, are notorious for being bad.
T. The - the flavor didn't work for you.
it's just that your confidence is kind of shattered a little bit because you have tried quitting several times in the past -
T And kind of being there longer than...as long as possible.
Yeah, so you mentioned that you really don't want to be, you know, eating to get through the cravings, but there are healthy snacks?? like celery might be helpful to keep around to munch on.
I know this comes as a really big thing right now, and you seem um, very overwhelmed by that
T. Uh...Especially, cause, you know, your father has diabetes and has had some medical complications from that. And also, your mother is overweight, and so, that's concerning for you. But...um...you're taking care of two teens, and you know, that' s time consuming alone. And you're also doing that by yourself, so, um, it's hard to find the time to prepare healthier meals for you and your family. And...umm...moving forward, you do know that's something you need to work on. Because even your daughter is starting to show similar signs, so that's concerning as well.
And you got home in time to take your medication.
So if there were fruits and vegetables that were prepared already that might be a choice um in the future um or if any fast foods that already have more I guess nutritional value.
Yeah I do remember you talking about that you've really had a, well you've had a really rough last few months with your family and plus your just history with your
So there are benefits towards smoking but you're seeing also, for instance with the, umm, shortness of breath and swimming and with your grandson, some negative consequences?
Seven or eight
Ok. So it sounds like well, on one hand there are several - several occasions I guess. So social.
T. Ok. Something that scared you.
T. And show them that you're competent and can make these changes to improve your health and then hopefully
Something that you learned is making you want to try it again
ounds like participating in these diets has made you feel discouraged in the past, even though in some ways you have been very successful in trying to lose weight. It sounds like you even had success, it's just that afterwards you had a little bit of a relapse.
It's, it's, um, disappointing for you to have something you enjoy so much and it being taken away by something that you don't see a lot of value in in the first place, like smoking.
Quality of life...
- established medications.
T. - but on the other hand, you're gonna have to have the stress - if you continue - have the stress of your family members potentially taking it up, and your grandson going to the ER
So it seems like each time you've tried to quit, it's gotten, you know, you've gone a little bit further than the time before. This third time was the most successful of the three. So you're feeling like, if you could just get a little bit further this time, that would really boost your confidence
So you want something that's gonna to allow you to eat the foods that you enjoy but that maybe more moderation.
It sounds like you're very proud of your hard work. You've accomplished a lot in your life. Um, so, um... and, uh, how about when you were talking about your independence.
So you, you tried the nicotine gum.
Okay, so that's another reason that, um, you see yourself as someone who's generally pretty good with money and, um, this is sort of different from how you normally see, um, how you are.
45. Um - hmm.
So you've heard a lot of recomendations but they're just not even reasonable.
So you want it to be more of a personal, a personal change, you know it will affect the people around you but this is for you and for your health and, and you have a lot of competing demands and you want to find a way that you can change some of your habits and be more healthy but not completely destruct your entire life.
and you want to get healthy
T. Right, the medication.
T. Part of a solution.
so being spiritual helps you, how would you say it...
T. And this is very important that you want to make this change.
T. It's very important!
T. So, you mentioned that there are a lot of things you can do, but this maybe quitting isn't one of them
On the importance scale
T. But with the time constraints sometimes it's really hard to.
Okay. So let me see if I have this right. Um, it sounds like you're... you're ready to make some, um, changes in terms of how you guys manage food in the house and it sounds like you'd also like some information on what else needs to be done to, um, avoid getting...
Okay, um, and so, when you say, uh, you're in trouble, you feel that if you don't make the necessary changes then you're headed down the same...
Umm, so they go hand and hand it sounds like. And what about staying healthy and taking your medications how are they related or are they at all related that you want to stay healthy because God, it sounds like wants you to stay healthy, help you stay...
Right, so you don't have to...that doesn't have to be something that you have to remember.
the nicotine gum, it maybe worked for a little bit but it didn't taste good
T. It's difficult because your metabolism slowed down. Maybe that could happen to him too?
So it sounds like, just to wrap up a little bit, I can give you some information about the medications you can look over.
but then on the other hand, it's like if I don't read then I won't know
So on one hand, I mean, that social aspect with, I mean, people that you've gotten close to, taking smoke breaks, is important, you have been maintaining that...
Okay, so, um, you mentioned that you would want to make changes. So, um, you mentioned that you tried three different kinds of... well, two different kinds of diets and then you joined Weight Watchers.
Yeah. Um, hm. And you've tried the nicotine replacement therapy.
It's a part of your routine.
T. Which shows a decrease in your smoking...
Okay! so with that being said, um It sounds like there have been a couple of things that you have mentioned thorughout our talk today, that you would be, you mmight be willing to try, you might be maybe willing to meet wiht a group, such as weightwatchers, you might be intersted, as, if I had healthy food options, recipes, or maybe uh a group, learning about healthy options at a fast food restaurants,
Well it sounds like you have a lot of support not only from your family but from people you go to church with.
And it's just...those feelings, those withdrawal symptoms, you don't like to put up with those...
So taking the pills just kinda interrupts your daily life. So like if you wanna go to a friend's house or have somebody over then it's like, oh, ok I still have to do this.
T. Is one way that might be something that would work for you.
You mentioned also, so that, you're, you were worried about your children supporting you
Some of those changes are related to maybe exercising more but we focused more on maybe having some diet changes.
So it's, it's convenience that's the thing for you as well.
Ok so the easy baby steps...
So, we talked about many different things and we sort of touched on how you would like to kind of set these little goals as you go to kind of reduce your cigarette intake and the nicotine. Um, and so we talked a little about just cutting out cigarettes, a few each day, and maybe simply cutting out the ones that you smoke in the car. It sounds like those you think you could, are much more doable.
But seeing your loved ones...
T. Okay. Um and then after you graduated college you went back down to about a pack / pack and a half a day.
T. and that's very concerning
T. So you mentioned that you took a class to talk about um pre - diabetes.
Um, and that you haven't had any difficulty you say that your able to take its just habit and God helps you through that helps you remember and stay strong and stay healthy.
so, yeah, it ends up hurting you more than helping you it feels like.
- something you've been used to doing for a long time.
it doesn't sound like you've, uh, tried any actual prescription medication
More appealing
..in this time, it was the big accountability factor that you dealt with made the difference.
- within the next month, or so.
And food options that fit into your busy cycle also, so -
T. Yeah, and you - it sounds like you really care about others around you, not only your own health.
So you really don't like this feeling of kind of hypocrisy.
T. Which is kind of, uh, scary, actually. Because it feels like it's happening kind of out of your control.
And that's something that, and it sounds like it came in handy for you on Thursday. If you, you know, don't want to carry the big bottle with you and you know you're gonna be out somewhere
Mhmm. Yeah you talked about antibiotics...
Finally found that fit.
Lack of deep sleep
63. Yeah. Mmm hmm.
A 3 or a 4.
T. Right, right, and you know, um. Is it, it is, it's not a one two three. Unfortunately I can't just give you a pill and magically -
That your asking for trouble?
So it sounds like you know overall in the last few weeks, it has gone from kind of scary, and it just, it just keeps getting a little more positive, less anxiety because you're getting a sense of what it's going to be like down the road. Okay
So it sounds like smoking is something that you've been doing for a long time and it's not only a habit, but it's something that comforts you, and it helps you get through the day, and um, so let's talk about, um uh some of the things that make you feel less confident about quitting, so.
T. It could be a bonding experience between you and your daughter to go do this together.
Okay. All right. Um... One other thing I like to to talk about with clients when they come in is their values or what they see as being most important in their life. So you've already told me a little bit about that and that that is, you know, you really value your time with other, with friends and having the community around you. That's that's something that you've really enjoyed in your life
Right, you know, changing your mentality.
So the experiences with those weight loss attempts were pretty miserable it sounds like. Past attempts.
This is really important to you.
So you have drawn some stigma as far as doing that -
So you are really concerned about you and how your demeanor will come off during those withdrawals.
- new medication versus, y'know -
T. So, um. One thing that I hear you saying that you don't like to cook.
Oh wow, so it's very restrictive.
