T. Right, right. But you don't want to be mean and shoot people down when their offering you the treats.
T. You know, handling all of this on your own. You're just trying to make sure you, you know, you get everything done and eating healthy is part of one of the like the last things that's on your mind
T. Into maybe a four or a five, it sounds like you really need a mapping out of what you could do.
Okay. So you mentioned umm good parent and responsible as a good parent...
So, you know that pop is definitely not helping you're weight issues
I know that you mentioned your family is very important to you.
136. Mm hmm.
So you think that fruits and vegetables are a significance of nutrition, they would be more nutritious then what you are eating now.
And you've tried to lose weight in the past. And now it's really. Sought help. Which is a great first step.
T. But it's something that you're thinking about. There's something about it that you know kind of interests you in losing weight.
So you are really concerned about the burden that you would put on your family if you don't change your life.
So diabetes is a really compelling reason for you to eat better even if they told that it's complicated and involves a bit of a struggle.
Ok. So you were referred today by your doctor specifically because of concerns with your pre - diabetes.
T. So your not really sure where to go from here and are afraid of the ways in which it'll effect your health in the future. Um So you mention that your daughters um play a bit of a role in terms of the time constraints that you haven't mentioned, if they could potentially sort of other ways that they could factor in, so you don't have breakfast and then you have a bit of the fast food.
- to be a positive - positive role model for your kids.
T. So then it's hard then to pinpoint exactly what has brought on weight then.
So being a good parent -
It sounds like your daughter also has an interest in helping to make a change for herself too.
I know this comes as a really big thing right now, and you seem um, very overwhelmed by that
T. So you see this as potentially being a conversation that your daughter would respond well to.
So that's not a strategy that would necessarily work.
T. And you're just really frustrated and maybe it seems like you're kind of... I mean you're here because you don't know where else to go. You know, you've tried everything you can think of...
So it also sounds like since these things are around you in your office wherever you work that controlling the amount that you eat is gonna be really challenging, because they are always around.
T. For maybe a little bit healthier options.
I think it sounds like you might be looking for, for something different. A new way to tackle this problem.
T. So you want to be around for your children
T. So you mentioned that you took a class to talk about um pre - diabetes.
That's really scary to think that's what might happen.
T. They have a whole array of health problems associated with weight gain that scares you.
This is really important for you...to make this change
T....having to take medication.
And that, you're a busy working mother.
So you've tried in the past to lose weight?
T. And maybe some new cook books, you might need as well.
T. Raising your kids and making sure that they're healthy, umm before you think about yourself so much.
Yeah. So I feel like I'm getting a sense that you, you've been given this diagnosis and you've tried a few things and they worked for a little bit...
T. and. And then, it's sounds like you're really committed to protecting your health and preventing future health problems.
Those bad numbers. So that blood sugar, those really bad blood sugar numbers that you got was like a trigger or a cue to action, you thought to yourself, " I really need to get this under control because if I don't then it's possible I'm going to end up like my Dad, " and you saw all the stuff that happened with him.
And they would benefit.
So, you, you're feeling overwhelmed with this new diagnosis. Um, it's a lot of information and it's, it's scary stuff, so, so you're a little bit afraid about this diagnosis and um, you, you've tried things in the past that haven't worked to lose weight and so, it seems like that, that's something that, that's worrisome, kind of a weight on your shoulders.
T. Ok, so far it sounds like umm you got a pre - diabetes diagnosis
So it's almost a feeling of lack of control like you're just losing control.
All right. So and, and even, even now I mean your kids haven't driven, but even just, sounds like even getting something that could get you through to the summer when they're not in school as much would even be a help.
So you've heard a lot of recomendations but they're just not even reasonable.
So you're worried about, you know, being _____ that you're not relying on them too much, it sounds like.
so you went to your doctor, umm, yesterday, and he told you that you were um, pre - diabetes stage and that's making you nervous because your father has diabetes and then, been on dialysis and umm, leg was amputated so there you see this happened to your father and you don't want this pattern to continue with you and with your children, and you're a single parent now, and it's been difficult to make changes in, in your diet and it's sometimes easier just to go out or to eat frozen foods and that's what your kids usually enjoy.
eah. Yeah, can you say a little bit more about that. You said I've let it go for a long time, so...
Okay, um, and so, when you say, uh, you're in trouble, you feel that if you don't make the necessary changes then you're headed down the same...
T. You want to work it in, but.
Like mango with lemons?
T. And your mom is overweight.
So yea he is not really in this picture
Like an eight
So you did not realise that there were so many other things that could go wrong?
So you have, kind of -- it sounds like you have a kind of a conflict in that you -- you really wish you could do it but based on your past experience you're really uncertain whether you, whether you have it in you to be successful with it and you're kind of conflicted about that.
So, it's almost like your doctor's concern is also making you a little concerned about your weight gain
You're interested in making some changes so you don't have to go with the kind of more stringent options, like medications.
So, it sounds like if we were going to, down the road talk about some changes... we need to think about something that could be more sustainable and not quite so extreme.
So, you said that you were...you've gone to the doctor and they told you that you're like in a pre - diabetic phase...
and you felt great after you tried those diet. But then, it was kind of too much at once or it just wasn't working for you and so keeping them on time just fell through and here you are.
So exercising is completely off the table for you at this point. It's more, um, you want to focus on, like, other ways, um, like eating healthier?
Yeah so this whole thing can really feel just powerless.
And that didn't happen. And you were giving up so much and you were trying really hard but you didn't feel that you were getting any kind of benefit from that. And you also mentioned, um, your kids were not a fan of the low - carb diet.
T. Um. So you like gardening. You mentioned, you know, possibly being able to take a walk.
T. And you've seen the consequaences and you're just, it's, it's scary.
T. Um, so we've talked about some of the things you've tried in the past, but you weren't really sure as far as like, what kind of things were available to you in terms of changing your diet. So that was a concern for you. And we also kind of talked about exercise. Um and how it's been very difficult for you to get exercise because of the trouble you've had with your knees. So if it's okay with you now, we can take the time to set some goals for you.
So now you feel like, your weight is restricting your ability to do things you enjoy.
So you're concerned that she's starting to have these issues with her weight ( stutters ). Excuse me. - at such a young age.
Okay. You want to be there for your children.
You're struggling to think about it but you just don't see any changes you can make right now.
Okay, so it sounds like if we are going try and fit some more exercise in your life it has to be something that is not very vigorous.
Uh - huh, alright. Um, so then some of the things you mentioned that are important, you have a few things that you find are really important and your health was one of those things, and you said you don't want to end up like the rest of your family, they are getting in trouble, you said they are having trouble walking right now, and hypertension and all of that.
T. Ok, sounds like it just came out of the blue and really concerns you
T. In order to kind of lose weight.
And, you... you... probably... You didn't get a chance to have an individualized plan.
Okay. So, uh, your motivation is pretty high. You, you feel like it's an important -
So if there were fruits and vegetables that were prepared already that might be a choice um in the future um or if any fast foods that already have more I guess nutritional value.
We were talking and your kids seem to be a very important aspect.
So diet and exercise are the two things that you've heard in terms of losing weight.
it sounds like you really value, you know, taking care of yourself and taking care of your children
So, what you've been seeing a lot of are these ridiculously complex diets or -
So, you know, you, you like to be able to cook if you have the time to do so.
T. You thought about making some changes.
Junk food
T. It sounds like a difficult situation to navigate.
Right, okay. So, like the diabetes is definitely going to facilitate change in you, because, you know, it's this serious diagnosis. You're terrified of what could happen. Hearing what your father went through, that's pretty scary stuff.
So, this sounds like a very scary thing -- this diagnosis that you've just been given?
So the confidence is there, the confidence is there, you felt like you could do it. It was something that you were really confident
T. So you don't, exactly. Even when you have you family. It sound like your family is pretty important to you.
So you've told me about how you're such a busy person being a single mom and a teacher you're kind of rushing around all day and as it stands know you're kind of grabbing food on the go whether that be snacks in the office or you know, some restaurants on the way home with the kids.
Sure, so you're nervous that some of those things might be coming down the line if you don't address these problems.
and so it seems like making, um, some sort of, uh, plan is really important for you [?? ] role as a good parent.
So maybe you found something that changes things up, maybe if you saw a continuous difference maybe that would be something that you'd be interested in.
Sure. Mhm. So, it sounds like you feel torn between, kind of... wanting, maybe to do some exercise and some things you enjoy.
Um, to you it meant to eat a thing of carrots at 1:00.
Right, Right and this prediabetes thing seems very scary for you and you're kind of um, kinda dissatisfied a little bit of information that the clinic has given you, obviously.
Alright, so, um, the eating less or eating more healthfully, whatever that is, um, is more challenging for you, um, it sounds like you haven't really had that kind of lifestyle in the past, um, and making those changes would be really difficult.
So maybe also being more aware of what you are eating period, because it sounds like you are not even aware of what you are eating.
T. And maybe instead of just asking for the #11 like you said, ask for the side salad and you might like it more. The more you have it the more it will become part of your normal...
And in fact every time you go to the fast food you feel like, you're just, like committing a crime.
And it's important to you that they make those changes, because you see what could happen.
this family history seems to be something that's kind of plaguing you with this and you feel that, you know, if you don't, it sounds like you're worried about setting this example for your children's as well, so something that you can all do together.
So, that's also scary.
So, not very confident
Cause your not seeing those benefits.
So that's an important part.
T. Ok. You feel very tired at the end of the day?
Like changing your umm... eating habits in terms of watching your weight is important not only your competency as a parent, but also, like in your job, umm... because you might not be able to do as much in your job, -
So, you know, so we've talked about this and, and it sounds like it's overwhelming, um, but at the same time you might have some ideas of how to move forward with it, you know, taking the first step and getting your family a little bit more involved.
T. We're making small changes. First step to your goal. And then having your kids as encouragement to move along with that as well. And using those cook books you said too. So that could be another part of your action plan when we mover forward. When you do cook with your family on weekends. Using that as well sounds like it could be an option too.
T. So it makes it probably that much more difficult, more frightening for you, um
T. Uhm, o right now it seems like ideally you would, uhm, you're really concerned about your health and where it might go in sthe future.
in your past at least, was that you tried a weight loss program, that didn't work out so well for, you know, who knows why.
T:Yea you have to start to making steps
Yeah, so I...That sounds pretty hard to go in wanting to be that role model and show them how to eat healthy and wanting to be that for you because you know that it runs in your family and it's something that you don't want. But also, it's easy to save that for the long term but then in the day to day it's so 37. much more conven and fast to drive through somewhere
And something made it hard to continue, to sustain, that program, whatever those programs were.
Right. So it is definitely difficult, but you have been successful at it in the past.
So you're taking this very seriously then
T. Umm you have two children and you're a teacher full time and really, really busy and find it hard just to find time to do things that are active so you've got a really full schedule, but you think that maybe if you found a way to kind of break up your exercise into small increments throughout the day that could be really beneficial for you
T....with umm...differing success rates, we've talked about the importance of your family, and your daughter also seems to be struggling with similar issues...
so it scares you a little bit that...
T. Ummm, although your daughter's now, kind of, becoming concerned, right, and so, so maybe umm, you can now, with exercise it might be more difficult to start doing that, and if you could some make some kind of change in your diet, umm, that could be a good start.
T. So there's some way that some diet or exercise that might work better with you and might fit better into your family schedule that that might be an option.
so it sounds like it is important to to ah keep it at bay so it doesn't move in to the next phase
And um so it sounds like you have a lot on your plate already with your children and your work.
So maintaining, or umm... Having a healthy weight is important to you because you'd be more - you'd be able to be more involved in your children's life.
you mentioned looking at the menu to look for what the healthier options are
Maybe demonstrating that you can get this under control not only helps you but can show them as far as being a good parent.
T. Okay. So you feel good while you're doing it, but you get tired. It's, it's hard. It's you know, it's difficult to stick to something so regimented.
T. And that's why you chose that.
7 or 8. Ok.
And you've tried this before and it hasn't worked and you're worried about, uh, progressing.
o little changes, replacements, yeah?
