Okay. So, swimming, even though you're seeing a negative impact from smoking, swimming is actually a really good thing for you?
So it sounds like your husband is very supportive of you quitting smoking, and you think that it would be, it's important for you to quit not only for your health but for also his health,
T. and also your husband
So first we're gonna try reducing 1 or 2
So, it sounds like that you're starting to notice how smoking is beginning to effect things in your life that are important to you. Your swimming, your time with your grandson ; clearly, being a grandparent is very important to you.
Ok so the easy baby steps...
And it sounds like its' very important to you in other areas of your life to be successful and able to have a handle on things and this is the one area that seems to be really just kind of holding you back or not being able to be control.
T. You, you tried the gum, but just, it didn't compare to smoking, it wasn't the same, even with the nicotine being in there...
Um, and, it can mention, you mentioned cold turkey and the chewing gum weren't for you,
So you've mentioned things like being short of breath.
And that sort of, makes it challenging to... move forward and try to actually complete, complete, to quit
- because you've tried it before. You've tried it cold turkey, you tried the nicotine gum -
Yeah, so it sounds like even though that, you know, you moved past that teenage part of your life where there was the initial social pressure to smoke, um it's something that despite, you know, that all that stuff is in the past but you know, you still find yourself enjoying, I guess, the aspects that you get from smoking. Even though, maybe, you may not be in the same friend group or social circles, It's still an activity that you enjoy doing, even today.
Your grandson..
- established medications.
T. You are scared what the life would be like with out cigarette.
So umm, you mentioned earlier that you would like to have a plan. So a plan of attack that maybe not so much a physical thing you can look at but something that you can approach this problem for what it is and really, really -
T. And nothing would work for you.
Yeah ; and, you don't like that.
T. It's really not where you wanna be.
you've mentioned, I asked you, you didn't like cold turkey, the chewing gum, and all the other treatment options you said you would like to learn some more information about how they work and how they affect you.
So, it sounds like smoking really helps you with getting up in the morning, going to sleep at night, just throughout the day ; it's a real strong habit that you have, in terms of scheduling your day around smoking.
Right, so it starts and ends your day. Um, okay, so how, you're coming here today to talk about quitting smoking but it seems that smoking is very instilled in your everyday activities and who you are almost, in terms of how you work, with your friends, it has that social element, as well as the sort of that craving in terms of getting up in the morning and being what you want to do.
T. But you find yourself particularly motivated, now.
T. Um, so just to make sure I'm, I'm understanding your story. So it sounds like you've been smoking for awhile.
you said you didn't like the peppery taste.
Cold turkey.
T.... with him.
So it kind of seems like it's a stress reliever. It kinda helps you to calm down and relaxes you if the day is stressful and it seems -
that would help you as well.
And so, uh, seeing that information and learning, you know, what would work for your particular lifestyle, uh, would make you feel more confident.
Yeah. I mean, and you mentioned when you tried to quit in the past and you failed.
so, um, being open to the possibility of using, um, prescription medicine to get to that point but there are these side effects that are concerning
You're afraid, you're afraid of having that, that feeling of disappointment again when you've already tried those three times. You, you did well in that you had the intention of those first three times and you got, where you even got to trying at least.
So, if something tangible like a diagnosis of something would make it feel a little more important. Or if it's really becoming, uhh, a major barrier to being around your kids?
- as you consider this -
So, I mean, you're coming in here today and you want to change the, ah - your smoking behaviors because you see how that's affected areas such as bronchitis -
T. Uh, so that might not be the right time to, or right place to try and cut back.
So that's - It - it's a real high priority for you -
T. Would be possible.
They've been coming to the forefront more and more.
Right. Um, So like two, I mean two very important things you brought up to me are that discipline is something that you value very much and, you know, family is something that you value very much
T. So I'm, I'm guessing that's because of some of the side effects that can be, go along with medication.
Okay. So it sounds like there are a lot of environmental cues just throughout your day that kind of prompt you to smoke and you don't really think about it.
So, sounds like maybe your a little frustrated because you've tried to quit before but things just don't seem to be, um, working for you.
Alright, Great. So... Um... So it sounds like, um... Out of our options, there's looking at the nicotine replacement products, seeing if there's one that you could
So, it sounds like recently, you've become much more motivated to quit smoking. And, specifically, to cut back. You've noticed that for your swimming, it's decreased your ability to swim, and also being around your grandson with his recent asthma attack ; you really don't want to be smoking around him.
- through the withdrawal. You went back to cigarettes to - to manage those cravings.
Um, so you are ready to quit smoking. You have tried it in the past and haven't been very successful. You tried to do it on your own and then you also tried the Nicorette gum and that was very helpful and we talked about the different options that are available um, for smoking cessation and it seems that for you what would work is...
Seems like you went cold turkey -
T. And get you...
167. Right.
so you're smoking because it's something you've been doing for a very long time. And it's something that's very pleasurable to you.
OK, some sort of really laid out plan that will kind of help you kind of know what to do in the situation and sort of how to.
It sounds really tough.
T. And this is very important that you want to make this change.
So you keep talking about that friendship. That - That friendship that you have with smoking.
Have it at work... and that might work.
You're kind of afraid of the failure
And earlier I heard you talk about withdrawal symptoms being in a big reason on why you, um, had not succeeded in quitting your smoking.
Oh. Okay. So, I don't know if there's any other successes you're referring to, you mentioned obviously, being around your grandson you've been able to cut down.
So it seems that the times that you tried... you know, you have tried three times. You are definitely motivated. The two times you kind of went for it on your own and it wasn't very successful.
Right. And - it's another option that may be for you, in addition to your reading, you maybe can ask the doctor if he knows about the medication -
Um, so and then, but you have it at an 8, which is pretty high.... And you said that's because you really care about your family, um, you... you think it's important for your health, which is something that is important both for yourself and for the people around you.
It sounds like the confidence and control are almost connected for you as well. Because when there's confidence over something it shows that you are in control of it.
54. Mmm hmm.
Mmhmm, so ya know it relieves stress but I think it most importantly a really essential part, an essential part or your life and taking it away almost feels like your taking away some really big part of you that you've been living for the past couple years
130. Right, exactly.
T. Hahaha. Um but doing it for yourself but also others
Um, so it sounds like you have been able to make the attempt to stop smoking in the past which is great. Um, but, you know, your work environment and the people you have around you make it difficult to stop, completely. Um, you know, when there are people, always, around you saying, " Hey! You wanna go smoke outside? "... it's fun and it's something that you like doing. So, it's hard to say, " No. "
So it sounds like quitting is something that's important to you right now for your life but you're a little bit scared to try again because in the past...it hasn't worked out as well as you would've wantedwanted.
so that's relating to uh the importance to do this for your family
Okay. So to, um, cut or quit smoking you noticed some negative health effects on your part, but also sort of, some negative effects on the people you love and the people that are around you.
T. Ok, so it's something that we could definitely research in the future.
T. And cut out the cigarettes.
Ok. So stress has a lot to do with how much you are smoking.
T. Okay. And so, you know, just to, just to summarize where we're at, at this point. So you, you're ready to quit cold turkey. Or excuse me, not cold turkey.
So, you're not really ready to, maybe, give it up all the way, but you wanna begin that process
- new medication versus, y'know -
So it's just part of your routine. It's almost become part of who you are. You've been doing it since you were fifteen years old.
What is the success rate and see, I guess -
Right, you're really committed.
So, it sounds like having something that's easy to take and that would just, really, just take care of everything - you wouldn't have to constantly be doing things throughout the day - that is really important to you.
So when you set your mind to something, you usually get it done
But not, like you said, you wasn't looking forward to actually quitting. You're, ah - more concerned about the things that may happen after you stop.
So, so it sounds like your grandson really motivates you -
And also finding something that, you know, it fits in with your swimming, fits in with your kind of life, your day to day life, not something that's gonna disrupt, or have you constantly battling....
So, you've tried quitting before...
Ok, so, an 8, that's that's fairly important to you.
It got to a point of where your, it was more important for you, uh it was more, it was more important for you to solve that withdrawal symptom than have to, um, go on not smoking.
Yeah. Um, hm. And you've tried the nicotine replacement therapy.
So you're, you're, you're concerned about your family being healthy, especially your grandson and not making his asthma worse by the smoking that might be, the, the smell that might be on your clothes as the result of smoking outside
T. in your behaviors
That would be impressive.
But also as part of your routine of your diet.
so, um, going forward, even if your smoking may not be a big issue now
T. And affecting someone that you love very dearly, your grandson.
T. a ha, I see your concern that in the future you are noticing some problems right now consistently, I understand your concern that you healthy in the future, other aspects
T. And the feeling of I can get through this, I can control this [?? ] is very important to you.
It sounds like smoking has kind of been there for you when you were lonely, or when you've needed a break from stress.
And it seems like, y'know, you've had some setbacks, I guess, with, y'know, trying -
So, it's something you're used to?
So, you know, you've mentioned that, you know, you tried the nicotine gum.
Right, it's really disheartening for you.
38. Mmm hmm.
So there's something about smoking that really isn't right for you when you want to quit...
So, um, the thought of those nightmares though
it's just, there's something that is enjoyable
Yea, so exercise in your life is something that you think is really valuable and you're probably frustrated that you're not able to swim as much as you were before.
Ok, so you find the word stress is kind of... sets you off sometimes.
A 3 or a 4
But additionally you know you talked about your, um, your grandson and your ability to really be able to continue on with your life and exercise and you know, not feel these negative symptoms of smoking.
T. Kinda making, you know, looking for things. And like you said as well, being able to swim and exerci
I guess, and I noticed you were in for bronchitis a couple weeks ago.
T. Um, snapping at people and, really, uh, not becoming the - the woman that you, that you would like to be.
It sounds like you're kind of worried or pretty worried that once you stop you're going to have those moments during the day where you're like...
So it sounds like, so the gum was helpful maybe it would create cravings for nicotine.
T. That there's quite, you chose a high number.
OK, sounds like that was a very difficult thing, to feel that, to see yourself as being able to make something happen and there's sort of a physical reaction saying I can't do this on my own, sort of disheartening kind of experience.
Okay, so, when you say it's becoming a health issue for you it's...it is because you like to swim and it's sort of holding you back there.
So you want something a little more regimented than just quitting cold turkey. Maybe a little bit of social support, um, from friends or a support group or something like that as opposed to just doing this on your own? Or you just want a little more guidance?
it's very important for you to quit and you just, you know, you want to try to find a way that actually works for you
Um, but - but this irritability issue really comes up, and becomes a problem, you know, because you're - you're not the person that you feel you are.
Yeah. So I mean, and this may be a more, I mean having, maybe finding other options for the...so you don't lose those social contacts.
Okay, so it sounds like your kind of thinking about, about quitting a little bit.
- and it's very irritating.
T. Which shows a decrease in your smoking...
You need some help
So you mentioned a couple of things, you mentioned family being very important to you and also your health
Okay, so that's another reason that, um, you see yourself as someone who's generally pretty good with money and, um, this is sort of different from how you normally see, um, how you are.
So it sounds like you are ready to quit smoking. You feel like now is the time you kind of like feeling a lot,?? you are kind of over ages had pneumonia.
So, we talked about many different things and we sort of touched on how you would like to kind of set these little goals as you go to kind of reduce your cigarette intake and the nicotine. Um, and so we talked a little about just cutting out cigarettes, a few each day, and maybe simply cutting out the ones that you smoke in the car. It sounds like those you think you could, are much more doable.
- and how, from a doctor, you had to take antibiotics for it.
T. - but on the other hand, you're gonna have to have the stress - if you continue - have the stress of your family members potentially taking it up, and your grandson going to the ER
