It's important, um... not just for you... but talking about being a role model for other people.
T. The gum was not a good experience to you. Let's just throw that out
So it sounds like it can really be a complex...
A big difference, from 23 to 2.
It's hard because you do feel trapped and isolated and its like a situation where
So they're tolerable enough for you to deal with them.
Ok so the easy baby steps...
Being a single parent. That's a lot of work.
OK. So in having attempts in the past having gone 1 or 2 weeks, that's giving you some amount of hope that you can -
Four - ish. Ok. So you're not - not super confident that you can actually make this - make this change.
Right those points are great.
And it was... so you forgot the...to change your clock.
oh fight that to help others instead of focusing on yourself.
So you, you tried the nicotine gum.
8 or 9
successful ok, s
Just making sure you got them when you're away from home. So you also mentioned that you you are very confident that you can continue to be 100% adherent.
So adjusting your life to take the medicine and just for the fact that you have this disease.
It's very out of control.
...to take your medications with you
You want something filling
like imagine before, like you mentioned before.
T. So it's a big stressor in addition to all the other things that you...
T. Okay, um. Okay, so, you went to this pre - diabetes class where they told you basically about diabetes and you've been talking to your mom. Um, so it sounds like, you know, your family history is there with the diabetes. So it's something that is really, really just important to you, and something you would really like to avoid, and you used the word um, " frightened ".
you've looked at this from a couple different perspectives, uh, you're afraid that smoking is interfering with you, your ability to swim, um and it's especially, uh, affecting, you know, your, your grandson's health.
And, just, you know, start collecting cookbooks and looking for recipes that you might be interested in trying
ht not have call in sick to work
Um, you've seen everything your family members have been through, and it's kind of frightening you a little bit because you are trying to avoid that but the things that you've already tried, they haven't worked out the way you hoped
So instead of the takeout, some quicker ideas you that might have is like cooking a chicken and having that throughout the week. You mentioned turkey loaf or ham. Grocery stores have precooked chicken.
T. It's just part of the ritual.
Okay, so you think this is something that is really important because you went to this lecture and learned something about weight and relation to diabetes, so...
So your just kind of overwhelmed with uhh, where to even begin right now?
To be within fifteen minutes
Okay. Around 10:00.
We talked about that right at the beginning. Yeah, the bike rides.
T. Or maybe going to the library.
T. Um, and, at this point, you're... you're looking for some help ; some guidance, maybe
So, um, if I could summarize, it sounds like you're interested in talking to your doctor and letting more, maybe even, maybe I could give you a website or a phone number online to learn more about it yourself and know where to go on the internet.
You mentioned your family, and your grandchild, and any other health issues.
Cold turkey.
Because you mentioned that you've been active before in sports
So you chose being a good parent cause you have two kids.
and that can be a big motivator, yeah.
Right. So it feels good to smoke.
So diet and exercise are the two things that you've heard in terms of losing weight.
early in the morning
Uh, you found a little more success with the, the chewing gum...
Ok. So we will go ahead and change that to a 10. Ok. So it's very important for you to take your medications and and you're...
T. That would allow you to not have to change your whole entire lifestyle. It's be a little bit easier, rather than just, say, " I have a really strict diet, I can't eat this, I can't eat that, I can't eat this, " but maybe just trying a little bit, a little step.
And you mentioned your swimming - you're having some difficulty swimming these past few... or, uh, recently and you, it's because, you know, you haven't been able to hold your breath as long
And as umm like we mentioned being a good parent and responsible and energetic is very important to you.
So family is one of them.
Because you mentioned, you know, it's difficult to find the time to sit down and cook.
and you felt great after you tried those diet. But then, it was kind of too much at once or it just wasn't working for you and so keeping them on time just fell through and here you are.
so that sounds doable, and, um, we also mentioned, earlier, talking about sort of thinking about alternatives to smoking. You know, it sounds like because it is such a big part of your day,
So it sounds like your family is really supportive.
It sounds like you said that cold turkey was not on the list for you and you also mentioned that you had tried the gum and that helped you a little bit more. Um
So, knowing that you can get that nicotine fix, at some point in the future, seems to really help.
T. Far out, if I can start to feel better and lose some weight maybe I would consider, but that's not the point that you're at now
it sounds like its inconvenient.
Well it sounds like you have a lot of support not only from your family but from people you go to church with.
so then I guess you want to include them.
T. And one piece of advice that you were given was to change your eating habits, but you were a little unsure of how
Maybe finding those opportune times when you know that that's normally when you would have a cigarette
And it sounds like now that's drastically...
T. Ok. Something that scared you.
144. Mmm hmm.
It also seems like you, ah - really enjoy going swimming, and??.
At the exact time, but it's good that, I mean, even with having a busy life, you managed to be 100% adherent.
That was not going to work. So, you would want something that doesn't have a flavor to it. At least not a flavor like...
Um, so you consider yourself a pretty disciplined person.
Right, sometimes it's an unconscious action as well.
So it sounds like that sort of frustration from the past is coming out in your ability to do that.
No late nights for you.
Okay okay. So, fad weight loss seems like the thing.
- for, say, within the next month or so
It's wherever you have sensitivity or where ever you are sitting.
Okay. And so, you're, you're trying to take action right now to, to avoid that and to feel happier about your personal life so you can also positively affect those around you. Your family, your students, and possibly even your parents and your sister, um, and it doesn't sound like you're trying to change their behaviors.
Trying to do as much as you can in that limited space.
So that's - It - it's a real high priority for you -
T. That's really important to you -
You know, kind of Reducing it a little bit by little bit
Your surprised yourself right.
And you also mentioned keeps you from getting depressed.
mentioned pill fatigue and also the side effects. Ho
So really for you it sounds like that would make life a lot easier...
so it sounds like the side effects initially have all gone away now.
- for, say, within the next month or so
support that you get from your parents is something that's really important for you and
You're working harder but you're still feeling better because of the medications.
So you want to live as long as you possibly can and
I know this comes as a really big thing right now, and you seem um, very overwhelmed by that
o. Ok. So no change. You did mention, are you finding that you, you mentioned earlier that you're getting better sleep that you're able to go to sleep earlier.
so, you've got the reminders coming from your mom and the people in the car with you at church
So it wasn't like you had to stick to an exact schedule...
Ok. It's not gotten that bad yet.
So you're, so you're using smoking, in a way, to kind of, kind of not just comfort yourself, but really, uh, make it possible to kind of stay even with - with what you're doing
this worries you because you've seen your father suffer through the same condition and he wasn't - he didn't make it. Um, and so you feel like it's now - it's - it's a genetic connection that you have to handle that you're worried that you might follow the same path.
So for you it's energy.
So, you really need to get into the process of elimination
T. That you might be able then to move forward with that and start doing that on a more regular basis to kind of help maybe also with this weight gain maybe in combination with your changing you know, your chips and little snacks out...
...and your child's health and also you can start some exercise and you can get some information from that website.
Okay. And okay, so have you thought of, you mentioned that you tried different things, you know in the past. So, how would you feel about perhaps reducing, you know, there is people trying but it's a very difficult thing to do and there are some people who do cultrochy, there's people who decide to perhaps reduce to one cigarette per day. Not to one cigarette but if you are smoking a pack, perhaps, eliminating one cigarette from that pack... And I am just wondering, so cultrochy, you said that it doesn't work
T. So you mentioned that you took a class to talk about um pre - diabetes.
So, you are confident you could change for a little while.
and it's a reminder, but then on the other hand like if you don't, then, then what happens?
It's been pretty steady.
T. And so, there just isn't enough time in the day for you to really fully commit yourself to it like you would like to.
Things happen during the day, you don't know.
Ok, so, an 8, that's that's fairly important to you.
OK, so if you had your daughter's support, that it would be easier to change your behaviour and routine.
Um, you've talked about the diets that you've tried before and those haven't felt right to you. They worked in the beginning but it's been hard to maintain them.
So it sounds like, even with all the side effects, that you've been experiencing, that you've still, like in this past week, you've still managed to take your medications every day, even, even with the fatigue
To know that its possible. That would really be helpful. So then your friends who smoke, theres no friends who have already quit?
So right away you're gonna try dividing your food into smaller portions and then in the long run you're also going to look into um healthier options?
That's why you are upset about that.
Yeah, so you're a single parent.
And you didn't mention your diet at all
Cause you cant see anything,
ust never tried anything like that?
And you to good community member, responsible, competent, healthy, considerate, energetic, knowledgeable, disciplined, strong, and on top of things.
Okay, knowing you're doing something to keep your health up?
Um okay, so we were talking about that of all the doses you took, you felt like you took them on time or in that two hour range, so with respect to that that's 100%. Your overall adherence is 83% with the two missed doses, so 10 out of 12. What do you think has...you had mentioned that you were out and didn't...you expected to be home but didn't...weren't home. So that was kind of circumstances that were unexpected that happened.
So we have good parent - or good role model for your children. Confident and hypercritical
Fearful, so it's the confidence level that we need to work towards? Okay, okay. So you mentioned your husband as well in terms of um, being tolerant of your behaviors.
& or 8?
But also as part of your routine of your diet.
So, it sounds like it's pretty important.
So you think that Um... Possibly you'd like to try quitting without drugs.
T. And we're not, it's not something that, um, we're ready for.
You've been really successful at your reduction so far.
T. Ok, umm. And you said, you also had mentioned that you umm tend to eat out at restaurants a lot or fast food. Just because you have so much on your plate. With raising your kids and being a single mother. That, you know it's just kind of easier to go and get take out.
T. And it sounds like you are starting to entertain that idea.
So problems like smoking you kind of feel like your buddy and and its really you feel lot of reflex to smoking and also taking care of your grand kid, you know you really want to make sure you can take care of him and be there and you know like asthma
From time to time just depending on when...
you've been smoking since you were fifteen years old.
T. You're scared of it.
Um, or the nutritionist. Also, trying to find different ways to incorporate faster, faster meal preparation or better choices at the, at the restaurant.
And you mentioned in the past when you turned fifty that that was really important to you to feel on top of things and in charge of your life. Um, and also of course being, um, being the grandparent that you envision yourself. Being, um, maybe the best version in your mind. Uh, it seems like at this point, um, involves doing specifically what's best for your grandson.
OK. Um I'm curious. You know, you you mentioned in the past that you've tried quitting smoking. You've tried the gum you've tried quitting cold turkey and that didn't help.
They are very important.
So there's a financial incentive as well.
More appealing
Okay, so and you mentioned that when you are under more stress you are smoking a little bit more.
T. Okay. And I intend that you should be able to -
Okay. So, swimming more is something that you'd like to do but you think that making a change first with smoking is the best route to go?
T:Exactly You are also having a hard time finding time for yourself and making time for cook and eat healthy.
Quality of life...
