It's terrifying to you.
you're absolutely sure that you can have this conversation.
And, it's something that, um, you wanna continue on, being able to do.
T. It sounds like you feel a little bit dejected that things you've tried in the past didn't work for you.
Ok, well it sounds like we've explored quite a few options today and um sounds like you have a pretty good idea of some steps to start, would it
T. And there's a lot of decisions that need to be made, and -
A little more fear
And engage with your kids.
T. Aw that's gotta be kind of a troublesome feeling. To feel like you can't.
So the constant reminder, having to think about the fact that you had it, your pills are a reminder of that.
eah, you're really scared. I mean you see a lot of, kind of, the effects or where this could go and you're really worried.
T. So you'd rather spend that time hanging out with your children
Mmhhhhmm, Mmmhhhhmmm. Yeah, so it sounds like smoking really helped you reach some standards or some goals you have for yourself professionaly at work. It is also holding you back from other standards, other things you want to be doing. Like swimming and you know, taking care of your health like that. And also, building the relationship that you want with your grandson.
That's a long time.
So if you made small steps, small signs of progress.
Okay so it sounds like your family issues. You see your family sort of struggle with this as well and that's played a role in the fear you have in the future.
T. And it's, it's hard to have that mentality.
Ready to go to sleep, yeah.
It sounds like, um, this is something that's super important to you, right now... especially at this point in your life.
So in your minds, these things are all around you all the time. You've seen them go on.
Frightening, yeah so the future possibility is, is scary.
T. Ummm, although your daughter's now, kind of, becoming concerned, right, and so, so maybe umm, you can now, with exercise it might be more difficult to start doing that, and if you could some make some kind of change in your diet, umm, that could be a good start.
So it sounds like, you know, swimming...
Looks like a supportive environment...
And that's what happened in the past when you tried to quit before?
T. You, you tried the gum, but just, it didn't compare to smoking, it wasn't the same, even with the nicotine being in there...
They're like the most important thing to you.
T. So sounds like you almost sound helpless when the only options available right now are fast food options.
T. Then there's also this part with your grandson. Uh, he, recently was, uh, was having some asthma problems, and you, uh, feel like you wanna, uh, you don't wanna smoke around him.
So family is one of them.
you can never seem to get below a pack.
You're looking for something a little bit stronger to make it a little bit easier.
So, you, you have, your family has a history of diabetes and you've been given this pre - diabetes diagnosis, that you're not diabetic yet, so, so that's good. Um, but you do want to make some changes to make sure that that doesn't go any further towards progression.
So you really really responsibility to responsibility in your own health and and this being, you know, a a duty for yourself to do.
T. For maybe a little bit healthier options.
That's why you are upset about that.
T:Yea you have to start to making steps
T. Should actually look like, and what kind of things you should actually be doing.
So your health has always been a priority for you.
T. Um, and then your grandson developing asthma has been, you know, a real shock to you and um, has been very scary.
So it sounds like you tried a lot of different things and also seen its health effects and are really concerned about it.
And like you said that's all tied into, you know, that's one of the responsibilities that you want to do and keeps you healthy and happy, so
Right, sometimes it's an unconscious action as well.
Okay. So, since you tried those couple times and it didn't work out for the long term, that sort of decreases how confident you are in yourself that you'll be able to do it this time if you decided to.
Yeah, you're exhausted.
T. You've heard some pretty scary things.
T. Um. Unfortunately you don't have sidewalks where you're, where you live in your neighborhood, so that makes it difficult, maybe to go out and walk at night.
So, it sounds like that you're starting to notice how smoking is beginning to effect things in your life that are important to you. Your swimming, your time with your grandson ; clearly, being a grandparent is very important to you.
Which maybe could've, ah, dealt with the cravings better. It also didn't seem like a pleasant experience for you as well.
And a little bit challenging.
