So you are really concerned about you and how your demeanor will come off during those withdrawals.
ok so it's kind of a two fold, you're down to your last regimen and you want to feel better
T. Especially, even though you don't have much time for yourself. So, it really gave you a time that you needed, and you can meet new people, and...
T. so uhm! it sounds like this may be something of interest to you
So starting small, like, making enough for like a few days at a time might..
T. Sounds like that could be a big source of support for you to
T. You'll just try to cut back a little bit now.
Ok. Ok, so it's not completely out of the picture
T. Okay. Okay, so, for, um, why it's important you chose a pretty high number there.
13. Um - hmm.
OK, so you're, right now you're a teacher and you've got very active kids um, and an active husband. Um, so your days are very busy and as a result, um, you just don't have the time, um, to, to cook meals as much as you like and you end up spending, uh, going to fast food about four times a week.
T. And you want to, you, you mentioned ummm exercise. You can do some exercise with your kids.
Um, so, as of recently, um, you have experienced some health... or, negative health consequences. But, they haven't been so serious... to where you feel like it's causing a major rift in your life, or, something that you need to do, immediately. Um, but you are saying some things that are worrying you for the future
It sounds like you have been committed to doing something about this diagnosis and that it got you a little bit worried, but they gave you so much information that you felt like maybe it was a little much. You want to try and figure out where to start
So when you set your mind to something, you usually get it done
Um, so, um you've mentioned that exercise is really important to you. So I'm thinking that you do value um your health a little bit, as well as your family.
T. Mm hm. Okay, so things really hit you, then you find a way to sneak away, that sort of thing. So um... if we can summarize real quick, it sounds like on the one hand you do enjoy having that smoking. You've had it in your life for a long time. And it's definitely a habit. When you get really stressed out a cigarette really helps calm you down.
T. Kinda making, you know, looking for things. And like you said as well, being able to swim and exerci
So if I end up having that first option...
Okay, okay. So it sounds more like y - you want to sort of be able to continue your, what you've been doing now but be able to make those healthy choices individually.
That sounds really frustrating for you. It sounds like you really wanna get better with your health, and, smoking, you feel like, maybe, it's preventing you from getting better with your bronchitis, which I see that you have?
ounds like participating in these diets has made you feel discouraged in the past, even though in some ways you have been very successful in trying to lose weight. It sounds like you even had success, it's just that afterwards you had a little bit of a relapse.
Okay. So let me see if I have this right. Um, it sounds like you're... you're ready to make some, um, changes in terms of how you guys manage food in the house and it sounds like you'd also like some information on what else needs to be done to, um, avoid getting...
And it sounds like adjusting around the family is really important to you.
T. It sounds like you feel a little bit dejected that things you've tried in the past didn't work for you.
It's causing enough anxiety that your feeling like you have to
And for your grandchildren.
It sounds like you really care for your family, and you want to be there for them, and you've seen what happened to your dad, and you don't wanna go down that road. And you're scared!
T. And um, um, there's this kind of battle if I want to, but then there are all these problems that I've had before, and can I manage this time?
It sounds, um, it sounds like it's kind of been a daily habit and that you're kind of just now realizing, um, the effects of smoking.
T. It's very important to me. Can I manage? Will it be okay?
T. And affecting someone that you love very dearly, your grandson.
And a little bit challenging.
If doing that keeps you healthy and then you could be happy. And it's just sort of a...
T. Make it easier for you.
I'm hearing you say that you're feeling like you wish you could but you're just not feeling very confident about your abilities to do that right now.
T. Um, so it sounds like you know, you've been really concerned about this weight gain that you've had over you know, over the years and you've struggled with your weight for a while and it's been a very frustrating process for you because you've lost the weight, but then you gain it back.
OK so it's been kind of frustrating. You've tried these diets before in the past and they haven't worked
Uhm, so looking at those things, like not being hypocritical and being a good parent, uhm and being competent. It seems like you're children, is, are really important to you.
T. And to really target that thing in particular.
You've really been thinking about this. It's something that you've really been thinking about. It's hard to do.
All right. So and, and even, even now I mean your kids haven't driven, but even just, sounds like even getting something that could get you through to the summer when they're not in school as much would even be a help.
Stress is a big factor in smoking.
So it sounds like it's not something that you asked for or anticipated, but something that you...
So, in order to kind of take advantage of that free time you have on the weekend maybe preparing some healthy options, having them in your fridge and your freezer to pull out when you get home from work will be just as easy as stopping by the fast food. It will provide your children with not only the fullness, but the nutrition as well.
So it, for you, it's even that there's a chance because your grandchildren are so important to you that you want to make sure that you're doing the best you can for them even if it can get on your clothes and affect his asthma.
T. Move you to being the non - smoker that you'd like to be.
You did mention before that you felt there was a change, a shift, so beforehand, it sounds like you were maybe doing some things that you felt better about in terms of healthy behaviors.
So you're worried about, you know, being _____ that you're not relying on them too much, it sounds like.
T. Then there's also this part with your grandson. Uh, he, recently was, uh, was having some asthma problems, and you, uh, feel like you wanna, uh, you don't wanna smoke around him.
So you've tried in the past to lose weight?
OK, so, yeah, maybe not so much the fact that it was overwhelming, but just that you were frustrated with not knowing how to implement it long - term?
T. Okay. And that, yea, that can be really a frustrating...
Sounds like your children are really important for you.
T. You're facing your concerns about your health and your diet is to be the pre - diabetes...
So it sounds like your husband sounds like your husband would be somebody really important to get on board. In making this behavior change.
So this is really all these times of trying to quite feel like failures.
T:So, it finds a way. It also sounds like your pretty concerned about, um this, crabbiness that might prevent the... It sounds like one of the biggest things that might be holding you back from really, um, moving forward with quitting is, you're kind of scared that you are going to become a not very pleasant person to be around and maybe if there was something that...
T. Just maybe too extreme and a little bit too rigid.
But when it comes to birthdays or holidays... uhm... you are not sure how sustainable a strict - non - sugar diet be.
Okay, so this fear is something that's hindering your confidence to move forward, in the decision to quit or in um, maintaining the abstinence in smoking.
T. You thought about making some changes.
So you've seen it in your family and you can see, like, you know, how, you know, what can come out of it if you don't go down that, if you, if you don't, you know, take care of it now. So you're feeling scared of that, it sounds like.
Oh, my goodness...... You've been through a lot in life.
- if they compare, or any of the other things that you wanted to do to, I guess, address the success rate and -
Right. That's exactly, I mean you're exactly right. Having a stronger immune system and being able to fight off
You're afraid that like, like, you may be going down the same path your father's gone down, that you might be role - modeling to your kids in a way that might allow them to go down the same path...
T. That there's quite, you chose a high number.
T. To you know, kind of push that. To be a good role model for her. And show her how responsible and strong you are and how you value that. And how that may help you guys move forward together.
And just, you know, making sure that she understands that, you know, when she sees you taking care of your body maybe she'll help and, you know, maybe she'll think about taking care of her body more as well.
- of withdrawal.
so you know that it's in you to be able to do it.
T. And, and by making good food choices you might be able to follow through with that and, and it'd be better for your health and better for your family. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, and then you did say about not being hypocritical and you're concerned about your daught.
So you've told me about how you're such a busy person being a single mom and a teacher you're kind of rushing around all day and as it stands know you're kind of grabbing food on the go whether that be snacks in the office or you know, some restaurants on the way home with the kids.
So, it's pretty [?? ]. You feel like it would be expensive if you cooked more at home or ate more, um, sort of healthier range.
Ok so it really frustrates you that this is getting in the way of so many things and that it's really kind of infringing on things that are really important to you.
T. You, you tried the gum, but just, it didn't compare to smoking, it wasn't the same, even with the nicotine being in there...
T. That can frustrate you a lot.
Something new
T. And it sounds like work, given the economy, is particularly stressful right now.
m. you also mentioned that groups might be helpful. Meeting other people going through the same thing and talking with them about it
- and that's really very frightening for you, um, at a personal level - y'know, you're concerned about your health, your knee is hurting, um, and you've seen this happen - you've seen this play out in your parents' lives. And, um, that's really - that's really hard to see, and that's really hard for you, um, and then you type out this cross - generational thing and your daughter is expressing concern, and, um, you really don't want to go down the same path as your parents -
So, smoking seems to really be a part of your daily routine.
T....having to take medication.
T. So it's very enjoyable.
But, on the other hand, your confidence is not that high because you're not sure how.
T....but on the other hand time is really... really a factor for you.
T. Um, but... Even though there is a lot of reasons to change - a family history of complications and some obesity and particularly your father's worsening health... Even though there are some strong reasons to change there are some things in your life that are really preventing you right now...
And you feel like you're kinda sliding into the same...?
T. So I'm, I'm guessing that's because of some of the side effects that can be, go along with medication.
So it sounds like you're asking if you should use the computer. I mean, you have investigated some things on the internet but the information out there is, maybe you feel a little bit confused
So, let me just to reviews that we talk today. You are really motivated to loose weight. You hear you have pre - diabetes and you don't want to go down the same route as your father. We talk about different options and the option that you sounded most excited, to me, that you are more motivated about is to have a support sytem with your daughter.
T. Aside from maybe a week or 2 weeks of no smoking.
from what I can tell, it sounds like you're just, you're really, it's really worrying you.
T. And not have to get out of the pool
Then, so you're fearful and concerned?
Thinking ahead about what's going to work best for you.
Pneumonia a couple of weeks ago. So you are really running. You are concerned about the side effects and there is also kind of in the plan. You want a plan to quit smoking. And in this plan needs to incorporate things some kind of like social aspect, you don't want to take any pills and also kind of like coming up with alternate activities and other things you can do with your time and maybe your hands so that you can feel better and will help a lot with like the process of quitting
So like you just kind of out of control when it comes to this and unable to control it.
feeling bad as well.
T. Um, snapping at people and, really, uh, not becoming the - the woman that you, that you would like to be.
T. To juggle in terms of time and - and - and it's hard for you to find time to maybe cook or make food at home or find healthy options outside of the house.
T....to stay completely away...
T. The - the flavor didn't work for you.
Quite a bit, ok. So that could be something too that you know if if your not around or lets say if your sick and in the hospital probably wont have your art collection to look at and enjoy so that might be one possible way that taking your medications and keeping you healthy, keeping you alive could be related to some of the things you value in your life like being comfortable and having that collection.
Right, so it starts and ends your day. Um, okay, so how, you're coming here today to talk about quitting smoking but it seems that smoking is very instilled in your everyday activities and who you are almost, in terms of how you work, with your friends, it has that social element, as well as the sort of that craving in terms of getting up in the morning and being what you want to do.
T. and really motivated to starting thinking of change
T. Who it sounds like you're very close with.
T. Um and keep up with him and really enjoy his activity.
Right, right. Ok. Well, you mentioned that just wanting to stay alive, and be alive and healthy for as long as you can was really important for you, and also avoiding resistance is also important.
I can see how that kind of relates to being competent for you
And that anxiety might produce more reason to smoke.
Mm hmm. So it's just a little despair from repeated efforts that haven't turned out the way you wanted
So it sounds like its really important for you to take your medication and your family is a, is a big part of that.
T. It's difficult because your metabolism slowed down. Maybe that could happen to him too?
So you're living a very busy life, you have 3 kids and you're you know a teacher full time and it means that you're not able to really take the time to um you know cook the food that you maybe think that would be um healthy for you and you've recently been diagnosed with pre - diabetes and that's very scary for you given you know your father's history and you want to make the change but you're not really sure how to because um you kind of feel locked in a bit by your schedule.
T. Um, and then your grandson developing asthma has been, you know, a real shock to you and um, has been very scary.
So, um, so lets talk about how you are feeling about this right now. You are worried, you are worried that it is going to get, um, it is going to get worse, it is going to accelerate.
so you really want to do it, but it sounds like you're just not sure, maybe your plan to just move through it would be something that we can talk about.
It sounds like also having a plan, for you, is important for potentially writing out what fading is going to look like for you.
T But it sounds like you're very, like, committed to this and want to....
So um if it's okay with you, I would ike to summarize kind of what we've talked about today and see if there's anything you would like to add or seeing if you had any questions or comments.
Yeah. It's just packing to many things into the day. It makes it rough.
So it sounds like these things have run through your family and finally it is
So, so it sounds like your grandson, even though, that it's this ingrained habit it makes you you know, it helps you through things, your grandson is something that really, he's a person that you care about and you can really rely on. Or not rely on, but, excuse me, but he really helps you, and he's something you can kinda, pinpoint and say, I don't wanna smoke because I don't want to do it around him.
...side effects. It might be sort of a combination of,
And it looks like you are doing everything that you can on your part to make sure that you're taken them everyday...
And seeing, you know, your father go through the whole progression of diabetes is a scary thing. And you don't want that for yourself,
So, it sounds like swimming is something you do want to get back in to, and, you do feel that you health would improve, if you did start to participate in that type of exercise. And, you feel that it might possibly reduce the amount of..um..cigarettes you smoke, as well, as another benefit to..umm.. participating in swimming.
So, you're thinking, " Take one step - at - a - time, you know, talk to your family this week and then consider, you know, reducing your intake of fruit juices or pop or finding something else that will satisfy that sugar craving that's healthier
it sounds like your day is just really busy, you know just running around worrying about getting your children out the door, you know as well as worrying about the kids at school and um just also getting your alone time and kind of doing all of that it's just like the foods that are around in order to just you know get the job done in terms of them being full...
Uh huh...So it sounds like...you've been thinking about this for a while, and you know there's some really important things that have really made you reconsider this habit that isn't really fitting into your life anymore.
Uhm, well, it sounds like perhaps finding a way to manage your withdrawal symptoms and finding a way to have your quitting attempts involve your family might be something that is possible as a way to help you make steps towards quitting.
T. And also, um just personally, you're finding that you don't like how smoking is sort of taking over your life. Um, the control you have over your life and also how it's playing into your relationship with your grandson.
So despite all the pressures outside and all the time pressures and the kid pressures you feel like, you know, you rate yourself an eight because it's very...Your health is also important to you.
Ok and it sounds you really care about, you know really pleasing your children, cause like, I mean, if you find something that they really enjoy eating then you know they are going to eat and especially since at school, you have like a really friendly and good interaction with your students and your with administrators, like, um, your inner mind set you want to continue to please, like, everyone around you.
T. Um, but there have been some, um, experiences in your life recently, um, in addition to the bronchitIs that we treated you for. Um, you've noticed that you, um, in your regular swimming you become short of breath and that alarmed you because you, um, you've been able to see the effects of smoking.
T. Um, you know, you have a lot of, kind of, daily cues, um, in your routine that cue you to smoke.
T. Ok, well you seem pretty excited about that option
T. So that sounds like very important to you.
Frightening, yeah so the future possibility is, is scary.
So, let me get some notes, to make sure I'm on track with you. So, you've been smoking for about two years since your last quit attempt. What brings you in today is not only your bronchitis diagnosis a couple of weeks ago but your grandson, he's recently had an asthma attack and also your swimming and you're noticing that your smoking having a pretty big impact on your physical fitness and umm, you're coming because you really want to, you really wanna have a plan to really, to really kick it this time.
Yeah, it sounds like that relationship is very important to you.
so, um, going forward, even if your smoking may not be a big issue now
T. But you're also concerned that a full quit, in terms of no more smoking, ever, may be not where you are right now. And so cutting back seems to make sense. You've mentioned a couple things: being around your grandson more, some of the habits you have in terms of smoking. with being in the car, your coffee and newspaper, and also stress around work.
So it sounds like you tried a lot of different things and also seen its health effects and are really concerned about it.
T. Yea, and be there and be healthy with them
learn a little bit more about what you are looking to
T. You know, afraid for his health.
OK, so for you an 8 is actually very important because you are not desperate and you have some choice at this point to prevent yourself from
So it sounds like if we could come up with a plan that involves um, taking care of like helping you with the withdrawal symptoms that um, that might be a way that um, would help you in the journey of, to quit smoking.
Umm, so they go hand and hand it sounds like. And what about staying healthy and taking your medications how are they related or are they at all related that you want to stay healthy because God, it sounds like wants you to stay healthy, help you stay...
And that seems like that may tie in also with the, the hypocrite piece. You want to be a good example, you had mentioned before, for your, for your children.
60. Absolutely.
Mmm. So, yeah, I mean, you have two teens, which, I mean, that alone is pretty stressful to take care of, but then also...
- and your concerns after reading a little bit about -
T. Increased times of stress leads you to smoke more. When you're less stressed when you're at work, you smoke less. And sort of these habits.
Yup. And a little scary I imagine.
Ok, so it's starting to make you - make you feel bad, too. Like you're not able to make this change and other people are.
Yeah. So I feel like I'm getting a sense that you, you've been given this diagnosis and you've tried a few things and they worked for a little bit...
So, it's important to you but, you don't sort of have the very concrete threat yet to sort of force the change, as you see it
T. Um, so we've talked about some of the things you've tried in the past, but you weren't really sure as far as like, what kind of things were available to you in terms of changing your diet. So that was a concern for you. And we also kind of talked about exercise. Um and how it's been very difficult for you to get exercise because of the trouble you've had with your knees. So if it's okay with you now, we can take the time to set some goals for you.
T. And then recently when that came into question it made you feel like, this is something that needs to happen both for you and for them.
You're interested in making some changes so you don't have to go with the kind of more stringent options, like medications.
T. We're making small changes. First step to your goal. And then having your kids as encouragement to move along with that as well. And using those cook books you said too. So that could be another part of your action plan when we mover forward. When you do cook with your family on weekends. Using that as well sounds like it could be an option too.
T. As you mentioned that substituting a pleasure for a pleasure.
o its makes you feel like more powerful. like you are actually.
and then you were talking about not being hypocritical, um, you were saying um, you don't want to be, um...you don't want to, you don't want to um, preach to your children, and at the same time you're not following what you're saying.
OK, sounds like that was a very difficult thing, to feel that, to see yourself as being able to make something happen and there's sort of a physical reaction saying I can't do this on my own, sort of disheartening kind of experience.
So then you look at all of those as failures, instead of successes. You're really hard on yourself. Every time you quit and only quit for a short period of time.
T. Exactly. And so then, uhm, since your children and your health is important to you and you don't want to be hypocritical it seems like you, uhm, ideally want to set a good example.
T. to help you in this tough time.
So, um... It sounds like there are a lot of reasons or, um...like you said on your important scale it's...Losing weight is important.
T. Whereas now it's a little bit harder fitting that in.
T....And their wellbeing.
So smoking in the past has put a strain on the relationship
T. You want to work it in, but.
And you are really looking for a non - temporary change. Something where you can really work into your life in a way that feels natural moving forward.
Okay. So, you've got some confidence? Self - confidence [?? ]?
