From what you've told me so far.
T. And you didn't like the taste of the gum.
So you don't think of any of the things that are going on as being major causes of your depression, you think it's just kind of a side effect of the pills
Mmhmm. It sounds like your schedule is...
T:Yea you have to start to making steps
Versus what you were experiencing.
So you know, you've been smoking for a really long time now and it's time to get your nicotine replacement products.
So other than that, is he...
And you feel like you didn't even notice that you were doing it
Four - ok.
Yea so it seems like you had like that component
7. Okay.
Yeah, so you see that in your family, it's been a struggle for a long time.
You know, you've mentioned several times, you know, just kind of, your mind as a whole.
Ok, so it's very important to you, at this point, to kind of, uh, help him and to show him that you care about him.
And then spiritual.
T. Ok I'm glad to hear that as well and I'll let you know if there's any more information that you want to know about
Um that's one of the ways that I... Um... Are able to change... Um
so when you say that you cant even feel confident, that sort of echoes what you were saying before when you said you cant even feel confident because you failed miserably, miserably
T. Check your pulse before you go to sleep.
So maybe having that in mind, maybe when you go out to eat, you might think twice about what you order for your restaurant.
So, you mentioned that your pills are in there, so they are not just an excuse for you to get your daily dose of medication.
So you mentioned that sometimes it's like you're scared of what his reaction would be if he were to hear that you were struggling with your weight,
You mentioned also, just recently, when you tried to, you did try to reduce the amount of smoking as an option.
So you really fear that this might be the one that finally gets him to actually want to do exercise and actually swim.
So, reducing your intake of fast food is one step - at a time - that you're going to take.
so, you are not as motivated as you were.
So it sounds like you've had some setbacks, I guess, with your attempts at quitting smoking.
T. Something to put on the plate.
T. - you have to have it at a certain time.
Ok, so you were recently diagnosed with pre - diabetes.
ok. So, you're concerned with how this new diagnosis fits in with other things you know, family and, obviously, work and your children and grandchildren are going to be concerned with seeing their parents and getting healthy, umm
...that you wanted to set up for yourself not the 2 - hour...
Right, so it's kinda a walk in the park, it's got that restaurant
Time with your family that you spend with each other.
T. Either that or, finding, finding a dietician.
T. And you think that if this were really different, then you could easily switch gears
You've tried to quit before, and it just hasn't worked out for you.
T. Okay, so it sounds like at this point, we’re kind of, we don
it didn't work out so well for you.
You said you were interested in seeing some dietetic strategies.
So energetic.
and um, a 10. So that's, um, what's, what's holding you back there, and you can't seem to get yourself to
You know, stress relief and a little escape.
so the physical activity seems to be a little bit out of your reach now because you're already feeling a little bit tired from your work.
So, morning is the time when you're most active.
And you, it, it irritated other people around you as well.
Ok, so you want to try to go to the regiment...
T. - and that would be a good example for your children?
That's what's scary to you.
Okay. So you mentioned umm good parent and responsible as a good parent...
you said you value your children.
You mentioned trying to find other options so that your children don't have to come to eat that same thing.
Yeah, so you are motivated to be 100% adherent to something.
So, you're interested in exploring the other options or finding out more information about replacement therapies.
But, in the mean time, we've tried some Nicorette gum, and, you know
So you've tried to quit smoking before, basically, multiple times.
Okay. So, in the meantime, I'm hearing that you really enjoy the nicotine replacement therapy.
T. It's just getting up and moving.
I know that sounds like you were quite upset by the way that was going.
But it does sound like um, concern for your health also motivates you.
T. Okay. They're definitely, uhh, uhh, uhh, having that bad experience with the Nicorette gum.
Yeah and you're still, you were committed to doing the pre - diabetes program, you just didn't want to follow through on it.
T. And make that conscious decision to not do it
So when you have energy, you have energy.
T. Yeah. You were sort of concerned about that same thing you dealt with with.
54. Mmm hmm.
And so you're concerned about him and want to make sure that his asthma doesn't get worse where he's at in
T. And sometimes it's just a little bit scary
T. And for some, it might be better than nothing
And, I guess physical fitness is very important to you.
Ok, so, so it's a stress relief for you smoking.
A three or a high three.
And you did try to go to sleep last night. And you failed.
So it sounds like you've tried a number of things in the past and nothing's really been successful.
- within the next month, or so.
I don't know. Just the tingly...
Okay. You've seen how this can lead you down that road.
It sounds like you're justif you could manage to get to the next day...
Seven or Eight
And you think your kids are going to think there's a lot that could go wrong...
You mentioned umm, one thing that you would like to change is your routine.
Ok. So taking your medications at 9 o clock is a good time.
And helps you kind of get through.
the positive side of the pills
So it's a little disheartening for you knowing that there's so few options for you in terms of how you can get things done.
so no side effects
- within the next month, or so.
that you value in life.
T. Ok, so you mentioned that you had to go to the restroom a couple weeks ago, a couple times. And...
T. And so you've mentioned that your grandson..
T. Um and then you also said " on the weekend you plan to go to a walking event, " which is when you usually eat
So that unconditional love and
So that's really important to you
Oh ok, so this would just be a reminder, you're exercising and you need to get out of bed.
Okay. So, uh, adherence is something that is very important for you.
So you think, oh, this is a stress relief.
T. And you're feeling very hopeful and feel good even though, you know, it's still early days to tell.
So you guys could you could work it in gradually or you know, do it gradually.
Okay. And so, you know, it sounds like smoking is something that's, keeps you away from him, at least in terms of time, and also your own health, if you could.
T....that fits in your busy schedule, it might be just a couple minutes.
and, you know, stress and being able to choose which restaurant you and your child go to on your own
So, at this point, it's kind of, in the process of becoming, uh, an independent woman, you're gonna kind of, you know, want to, you want to start to making steps to kind of, you know, address that issues that are surrounding you, those that you're dealing with.
T. Okay. So you think that this is an option that you can [00:54: Uh hum ] because in the past you had some setbacks, you said that was a reason for the success, you know, and now [00:54: Yeah ] you're seeing more success and more
Ok. So you tried some exercise last year, and it sort of, the quitting didn't work for you.
and you can never, you never seem to get them
So, you've been, uh, since you got married and became a mother, you've been at about a pack or pack and a half a day.
T. So, what that leaves you with very little time for yourself, and very little time to focus on yourself.
ok, so it sounds like once you get home you kinda have the burden of having to follow it
An 8ish. Ok.
Sounds like you guys could be, you could find something that's sort of fit into your busy schedule and that would be a good thing for you to do
Mmhm. Um, physically it sounds like you're kind of, ah, you know, getting on that schedule to do this exercise is going to be a challenge for you because of the general lack of physical activity.
T. And then you did try to order some healthier options.
Yeah so that really does give you a lot of confidence.
Yeah so in terms of eating out I know you said you tried going out and eating some lunch and dinner at the restaurant.
T. Yeah, you're really frustrated with your own health.
Okay, so being a good parent and being there for your children, especially in those - when you need it most, especially in those times of most stress, would be a good -
T. You know that's something that's been a part of your life for a while now.
Like you hate it when you get your kids -
Okay so they're obviously a fad diet that people have tried in the past that haven't worked for them.
And then also, if you were going to pick something that you said you would not want to trade.
So you're already doing something that you feel like is important, but it's also something that you feel is important, so why
Okay so you've got that reminder support from your dad and like that financial...
And you say I can talk to you about more
It's terrifying to you.
So, in terms of, sort of, your most important things right now are around a 7 and an 8, OK.
T. Maybe also, stress has something to do with how you get your nicotine -
A good eight?
Yeah, so getting sick again is a possibility.
And it sounds like, at this point, you think you're pretty strong and you're a little bit
You've tried in the past, you've tried several times.
T. And so the exercise part is kind of, the hardest part of this whole thing.
So, you've been smoking way too long.
T. Yeah. Okay. So I would say its an eight
And it might even fluctuate
Without even thinking
It's terrifying.
T. And, in your, um, in your attempt to, to find out more information about healthier options, you talked for a while about looking at the menus at the fast food restaurants to see what the nutritional contents are and what they are. And
You want to feel in control, but cigarettes are kind of...make you feel controlled,
So it seems like you realize you need this help and you... you realize that you're gonna need some help to quit because you feel like what's happening to you is overwhelming and you want to feel better and feel hopeful
Seven or eight
So you - if you gave up smoking you could probably save a couple thousand dollars on your own.
You tried to focus on the healthier options.
So, you know, you are concerned about how, if you are smoking a pack, it might affect your swimming ability.
T. And so you've, you've tried to have, you've tried to have the doctor prescribe you some medication.
And you mentioned some of the things you've tried to do in the past, umm, like changing your swimming regimen.
Yea because you're not sure what the treatment is going to be like so you've already made some choices and you're feeling frustrated about where it stands.
And that's what I hear you saying that the doctor gave you pills to make you miserable.
